An improved robotic arm system for servicing the tubesheet located within the channel head of a nuclear steam generator is provided. The system includes a robotic arm whose shoulder and elbow joints are rotatable only in the plane parallel to the tubesheet in order to eliminate the imposition of cantileverly-induced torques on the electric motors driving these joints, as well as to minimize the possibility of mechanical interference between the arm and the walls of the channel head. Each of the motorized joint assemblies of the arm includes resolvers connected not only to the output of the drive train that moves the joint, but also to the drive shaft of the electric motor that drives the drive train, wherein the feedback signal generated by the resolver connected to the drive shaft of the electric motor is the primary signal used to modulate the amount of electric power conducted to the motor of the joint. Such a configuration advantageously results in smoother robotic arm movement. Finally, the control circuit assembly of the robotic arm system includes a control processing unit (CPU) which is capable of simultaneously driving not only the joint assemblies of the robotic arm, but also any computer-operated mechanisms associated with a variety of end effectors which the arm is capable of delivering. The CPU, power supply and other components of the control circuit assembly are installable in the containment area surrounding the steam generator in order to eliminate the number of cable penetrations through the containment walls that are necessary to operate the system.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic arm system for maintaining a tool in a desired orientation while moving it along a trajectory having components in all three dimensions, comprising: a base assembly for cantileverly supporting a robotic arm; at least first, second and third arm segments for forming an articulated robotic arm, and at least first and second motorized joint assemblies rotatably connecting said base assembly to said first arm segment, and said first and second arm segments, respectively, and including motor mechanisms for driving said assemblies, wherein said first and second joint assemblies are rotatable only around substantially vertical axes to prevent the application of cantileverly-induced torque on the motor mechanisms driving said assemblies, and wherein the motor mechanisms of each of said joint assemblies includes a drive train for rotating the joint assembly, a motor means for driving the drive train, and a pair of resolvers for simultaneously and independently generating signals indicative of the output of said motor means and the output of said drive train. 2. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 1, wherein said motor means is circumscribed by said drive train. 3. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 1, wherein said resolvers are circumscribed by said motor means. 4. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 3, wherein said resolvers are concentrically arranged in tandem with respect to one another in an opening in the drive shaft of the motor means to minimize the space required by said resolvers within said motor mechanisms. 5. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 1, wherein said resolvers are arranged in tandem with respect to one another to minimize the space required by said resolvers within said motor mechanisms. 6. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 5, wherein each resolver has an input shaft, and wherein the input shaft of one resolver is rotatably mounted within a bore present in the input shaft of the other resolver. 7. A robotic arm system for maintaining a tool in a desired orientation while moving it along a trajectory having components in all three dimensions, comprising: a base assembly for cantileverly supporting a robotic arm; at least first, second and third arm segments for forming an articulated robotic arm, at least first and second motorized joint assemblies rotatably connecting said base assembly to said first arm segment, and said first and second arm segments, respectively, and including motor mechanisms for driving said assemblies, wherein said first and second joint assemblies are rotatable only around substantially vertical axes to prevent the application of cantileverly-induced torque on the motor mechanisms driving said assemblies, and a coupler means for detachably mounting one portion of the robotic arm of the system to the other portion to facilitate the installation of said arm in an area accessible only through a relatively narrow accessway, wherein said robotic arm has an even number of motorized joint assemblies, and said coupler means divides the robotic arm into two portions, each of which has the same number of joint assemblies. 8. A robotic arm system for maintaining a tool in a desired orientation while moving it along a trajectory having components in all three dimensions comprising: a base assembly for cantileverly supporting a robotic arm; wherein said base assembly includes locking means for detachably mounting said arm to the underside of a tubesheet having at least one vacant tube, including a plurality of radially extendible fingers for grippingly engaging the inner surface of said tube, wherein said fingers engage at least 40 percent of the circumference of the tube inner surface; at least first, second and third arm segments for forming an articulated robotic arm, and at least first and second motorized joint assemblies rotatably connecting said base assembly to said first arm segment, and said first and second arm segments, respectively, and including motor mechanisms for driving said assemblies, wherein said first and second joint assemblies are rotatable only around substantially vertical axes to prevent the application of cantileverly-induced torque on the motor mechanisms driving said assemblies. 9. A robotic arm system for moving an end effector in a desired orientation while moving it along a trajectory having components in all three dimensions within a radioactive channel head of a nuclear steam generator having a tubesheet, and a manway for affording access to said channel head, comprising: a base assembly for cantileverly supporting a robotic arm; at least first, second and third arm segments for forming an articulated robotic arm, and at least first and second motorized joint assemblies rotatably connecting said base assembly to said first arm segment, and said first and second arm segments, respectively, and including motor mechanisms for driving said assemblies; wherein said first and second joint assemblies are rotatable only in a plane parallel to the tubesheet both to prevent the application of cantileverly induced torque on said first and second motor mechanisms, and to minimize opportunities for mechanical interference between said arm and the walls of said channel head. 10. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 9, wherein the motor mechanisms of each of said joint assemblies includes a drive train having an input shaft and an output shaft, and a motor means having a drive shaft connected to the input shaft of the drive train, and a pair of resolvers for simultaneously and independently generating a signal indicative of the movement of the output shaft of the drive train and the drive shaft of the motor means. 11. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 10, wherein said motor means is circumscribed by said drive train, and said resolvers are circumscribed by said motor means. 12. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 11, wherein said resolvers are arranged in tandem, and wherein each resolver has an input shaft, and the input shaft of one resolver is concentrically and rotatably mounted within a bore present in the input shaft of the other resolver to minimize the space required by said resolvers within said motor mechanisms. 13. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 9, further comprising a coupler means for detachably mounting one portion of the robotic arm of the system to the other portion to facilitate the installation of said arm in said channel head through said manway. 14. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 13, wherein said robotic arm has six motorized joint assemblies, and said coupler means divides the robotic arm into two portions, each of which includes three joint assemblies. 15. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 13, wherein said coupler includes a male member, a female member, and a locking ring means for securing said male and female members together. 16. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 15, further comprising a loading fixture for loading said robotic arm into said channel head which is detachably mountable on the periphery of the manway. 17. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 16, wherein said loading fixture includes a base plate that is detachably connectable to the periphery of the manway, a support frame pivotally connected to said base plate for supporting one of said portions of said robotic arm, and a manually operable gear train for pivotally moving said support frame toward said manway to load said robotic arm portion into said channel head. 18. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 9, wherein said base assembly includes locking means for detachably mounting said arm to the underside of a tubesheet having at least one vacant tube, including a plurality of radially extendible fingers for grippingly engaging the inner surface of a said tube, wherein said fingers engage at least 40 percent of the circumference of the tube inner surface. 19. A robotic arm system for moving a tool along a desired trajectory, comprising: an articulated robotic arm having a plurality of rotatable joint assemblies connected between a plurality of arm segments, each of which includes a motor mechanism for rotating said joint assemblies a desired angle, each motor mechanism including an electric motor means having a drive shaft, and a drive train having an output shaft connected to one of said robotic arm segments; a control means for generating an electric signal that controls the amount of electric power conducted to the electric motor means of each of said assemblies to control the angle of movement of said joints, and first and second resolver means connected to said motor drive shaft and said drive train output shaft, respectively, for providing separate feedback signals to said control means indicative of the angular position of said drive and output shafts. 20. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 19, wherein the mechanical output of the output shaft is characterized by a component of mechanical noise, and wherein said control means relies upon the feedback signal generated by said first resolver means in determining the angular position of the robotic arm segment connected to the output shaft of the drive train to avoid the superimposition of said noise component on the control signal generated by said control means. 21. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 20, wherein the control means periodically compares the feedback signals generated by said first and second resolvers to determine the integrity of the mechanical linkage between said motor means and drive train. 22. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 20, wherein said drive train is a harmonic drive. 23. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 19, wherein at least one of said joint assemblies is rotatable along a horizontal axis and cantileverly supports the weight of at least a portion of said robotic arm, and wherein said control means shunts electric current generated by the electric motor means of said joint assembly to apply a braking action to said assembly whenever the weight of said cantilevered arm portion is allowed to rotate the motor drive shaft through said drive train. 24. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 19, wherein said control means includes a central processing unit (CPU) and said tool is computer operated, and wherein the CPU of the control means operates both the joint assemblies of the robotic arm and the computer operated tool. 25. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 24, wherein said robotic arm system moves a tool in a contained area of radioactivity in a nuclear power plant, and said CPU of said control means is located within said contained area to minimize the number of cable penetrations into said contained area. 26. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 25, wherein said CPU includes a decontaminable cover means. 27. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 19, wherein said motor means is circumscribed by said drive train, and said resolvers are circumscribed by said motor means. 28. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 27, wherein said resolvers are arranged in tandem, and wherein each resolver has an input shaft, and the input shaft of one resolver is concentrically and rotatably mounted within a bore present in the input shaft of the other resolver to minimize the space required by said resolvers within said motor mechanisms. 29. A robotic arm system for moving an end effector along a desired trajectory within a contained area of radioactivity comprising: an articulated robotic arm having a plurality of rotatable joint assemblies for rotating said joints a desired angle, each assembly including a motor mechanism having an electric motor means having a drive shaft, and a drive train having input and output shafts connected to said motor drive shaft and one of said joints, respectively; a control means for generating a signal for controlling the amount of electric power conducted to the electric motor means of each of said assemblies to control the angle of movement of said joints, and first and second resolver means having mechanical inputs connected to said motor drive shaft and said drive train output shaft, respectively, for providing separate feedback signals to said control means indicative of the angular position of said drive and output shafts, respectively, wherein the control means uses the feedback signal from the motor drive shaft to modulate the amount of power conducted to the electric motor of the assembly to avoid the superimposition of noise on the power control signal generated by the control means, and periodically compares the feedback signals of both resolvers to determine the integrity of the mechanical linkage between said motor and said drive train. 30. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 29, wherein said drive train is a harmonic drive. 31. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 29, wherein the mechanical output of the output shaft is characterized by a component of mechanical noise, and wherein said control means relies upon the feedback signal generated by said first resolver means in determining the angular position of the robotic arm segment connected to the output shaft of the drive train to avoid the superimposition of said noise component on the control signal generated by said control means. 32. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 29, wherein the control means includes a CPU, and said end effector is computer operated, and wherein the CPU of the control means simultaneously operates the joint assemblies of the robotic arm and the end effector. 33. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 32, wherein said CPU of the control means is located within the contained area to minimize the number of cable penetrations into said contained area. 34. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 33, wherein said CPU includes a decontaminable cover means. 35. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 29, wherein said motor means is circumscribed by said drive train, and said resolvers are circumscribed by said motor means. 36. A robotic arm system as defined in claim 25, wherein said resolvers are arranged in tandem, and wherein each resolver has an input shaft, and the input shaft of one resolver is concentrically and rotatably mounted within a bore present in the input shaft of the other resolver to minimize the space required by said resolvers within said motor mechanisms. 37. A method for controlling an articulated robotic arm having at least one rotatable joint assembly that includes a drive train having an output shaft for moving said arm, and a motor means having a drive shaft for driving said drive train, comprising the steps of a) generating a first electric signal indicative of the amount that the drive shaft of the electric motor means rotates; b) generating a second electric signal indicative of the angular position of the robotic arm by multiplying the number of drive shaft rotations by the gear ratio between the drive shaft of the motor means and the output shaft of the drive train, and c) modulating the amount of electric current conducted through the electric motor means by means of said second electric signal, and d) terminating the flow of current through said electric motor means when said second electric signal indicates that said arm has been moved to a desired position. 38. A method for controlling an articulated robotic arm as defined in claim 37, further including the step of generating a third electric signal indicative of the amount that the robotic arm actually rotates and comparing said second and third signals to determine whether or not any slippage is present between said motor drive shaft and said drive train. 39. A robotic system for both delivering a plurality of computer operated end effectors within the radioactive channel head of a nuclear steam generator located in a containment area in a power plant, and for operating each of said plurality of end effectors, comprising: an articulated robotic arm having a proximal end connected to a base assembly that is detachably connectable to a tubesheet disposed within said channel head, a distal end having a coupler that is detachably connectable to each of said plurality of end effectors, and a plurality of motorized joint assemblies including electric motor means for moving said distal end of said arm, and a control means including a CPU for both directing the movement of said distal end by controlling the input of electric power to the electric motor means of said assemblies, and for simultaneously controlling the operation of said end effectors. 40. A robotic system as defined in claim 39, wherein said robotic arm includes six motorized joint assemblies for maintaining said end effector in a desired orientation while moving it along a trajectory having components in all three dimensions. 41. A robotic system as defined in claim 39, wherein said CPU is located within said contained area to minimize the number of cable penetrations into said contained area. 42. A robotic system as defined in claim 41, wherein said CPU includes a decontaminatable cover means. 