A robotic system has a transfer bay through which objects may be exchanged with a robot. An internal door allows the robot to access the transfer bay and an external door allows access to the transfer bay from the exterior. The external door can only be opened when the internal door is closed and when the robot is denied access to the transfer bay. This means that personnel inputting or outputting objects to the robotic system cannot come into contact with the robot. When the robotic system is an automated storage library the transfer bay may comprise any number of available storage shelf bays and thus the size of the transfer bay may be varied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a housing separating an interior from an exterior; a robot in the interior; a transfer bay through which a piece may be exchanged between said robot and the exterior; an internal door through which said robot may access said transfer bay; an external door through which said transfer bay may be accessed from the exterior; means for controlling said doors such that said external door may only be open when said internal door is closed; and means for instructing said robot not to access said transfer bay when said internal door is closed. 2. A robotic system as in claim 1 wherein said transfer bay includes a plurality of open-ended storage cells within which a piece may be placed and accessed in a first direction by said robot and in a second direction from said exterior. 3. A robotic system as in claim 1 wherein said transfer bay has a designated input area and a designated output area. 4. An automated storage library comprising: a housing separating an interior from an exterior; a robot, storage shelves, and read devices in the interior, the robot for transporting a data storage medium between the storage shelves and the read devices; a transfer bay through which a data storage medium may be exchanged between said robot and the exterior; an internal door through which said robot may access said transfer bay; an external door through which said transfer bay may be accessed from the exterior; means for controlling said doors such that said external door may be open when said internal door is closed; and means for instructing said robot not to access said transfer bay when said internal door is closed. 5. A robotic system as in claim 6 wherein said transfer bay includes a plurality of open-ended storage cells within which a data storage medium may be placed and accessed in a first direction by said robot and in a second direction from said exterior. 6. A robotic system as in claim 4 wherein said transfer bay has a designated input area and a designated output area. 7. A robotic system as in claim 4 wherein said transfer bay may be used for permanent storage of said data storage medium. 