The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A signaling device for use with a position monitoring system for use in a surgical operation, the device comprising: a pin having a center axis for positioning into a patient's body; and a beacon connected to the pin, the beacon having a housing and an energy emitter, the housing having a channel with an end of the pin therein, the channel having a channel axis coaxial with the energy emitter, and means for positioning the housing at a predetermined position on the pin end including means for removably mounting the housing on the pin such that the beacon can be removed from and replaced on the pin at the predetermined position, the energy emitter being coaxially aligned with the center axis of the pin at the predetermined position of the housing on the pin. 2. A device as in claim 1 wherein the means for positioning includes the housing forming a stop for the end of the pin in the channel. 3. A method of sensing relative positioning of multiple portions of a patient's body during surgery comprising steps of: connecting beacons to portions of the patient's body; measuring locations of the beacons; sensing positions on the patient's body as reference points; determining the position of the beacons relative to sensed reference points; tracking movement of the beacons; and determining the position of the portions of the patient's body relative to each other based upon the movement of the beacons relative to each other. 