A robotic joint for use in toys or other robotic assemblies to provide locomotion to animated figures, sub-assemblies, and toy construction building sets. The robotic joint is particularly adaptable because one side of the joint carries the motor that is powering the joint. It also provides for four-way action in a joint in a very compact space by attaching a motorized joint directly to the shaft of another motor. It can also provide omni-directional action in a joint, since each motor turns the shaft or turns the motor housing based on the amount of resistance applied to the shaft. This can be demonstrated in a joint that is used to support a leg in which the joint has two motors attached by their shafts, perpendicular to each other in the same joint. A joint structure is provided in which two parallelograms are placed substantially perpendicular to one another to distribute the weight.
Claims What I claim is: 1. A robot having a body, two upper legs, two lower legs, and two feet comprising: a. said upper leg attached to said body at a hip joint; b. said lower leg attached to said upper leg at a knee joint; c. said feet attached to said lower leg at an ankle; d. said upper leg and said lower leg each having a joint structure; e. a first motor having a first housing and a first shaft, said first housing attached to each of said legs, and each of said shafts attached to said hip joint such that said shafts are in substantial alignment; f. two second motors each having a second housing and a second shaft, said second housings attached to said upper leg such that said shafts attach to said hip joint and said second shafts attached to said hip joint in substantial parallel alignment and such that said second shafts are aligned substantially perpendicularly to said first shafts; g. a pair of third motors each having a third housing and a third shaft, said third shafts attached to said lower legs such that each of said third shafts attaches to separate knee joints such that said third shafts are in substantial parallel alignment; h. a pair of fourth motors each having a fourth housing and a fourth shaft, each of said fourth motors attached to a different ankle joint such that said shafts attach to said ankle joint in substantial parallel alignment and substantial perpendicular alignment to said third shafts, said fourth housings attached to said lower leg; and i. said ankle joint pivotally connecting one of said feet to one of said lower legs to enable each foot to move omni-directionally. 2. A robot having a body, two upper legs, two lower legs, and two feet comprising: a. said upper leg attached to said body at a hip joint; b. said lower leg attached to said upper leg at a knee joint; c. said feet attached to said lower leg at an ankle; d. said upper leg and said lower leg each having a joint structure; e. a first movement means having a first housing and a first shaft, said first housing attached to each of said legs, and each of said shafts attached to said hip joint such that said shafts are in substantial alignment; f. two second movement means each having a second housing and a second shaft, said second housings attached to said upper leg such that said shafts attach to said hip joint and said second shafts attached to said hip joint in substantial parallel alignment and such that said second shafts are aligned substantially perpendicularly to said first shafts; g. a pair of third third movement means each having a third housing and a third shaft, said third shafts attached to said lower legs such that each of said third shafts attaches to separate knee joints such that said third shafts are in substantial parallel alignment; h. a pair of fourth movement means each having a fourth housing and a fourth shaft, each of said fourth movement means attached to a different ankle joint such that said shafts attach to said ankle joint in substantial parallel alignment and substantial perpendicular alignment to said third shafts, and fourth housings attached to said lower leg; and i. said ankle joint pivotally connecting one of said feet to one of said lower legs to enable each foot to move omni-directionally. 