A unitary one-piece plug is insertable into a magnetic data storage blank disk by a robot arm. The plug has a relatively large flange portion and grip knob on one end, a smaller diameter entry portion on the other end which passes through a central aperture in the disk. A cylindrical portion of less diameter than the entry portion forms a circumferential slot which rests on a bottom edge of the aperture in a vertically oriented disk when the plug is left in the disk aperture and the disk is mounted in a disk carrier for disk processing. The plug flange then blocks communication from one side to the other side of the disk. When the plug is lifted in the disk aperture by a robot arm the plug slot is captured by the upper edge of the disk aperture and permits the robot arm to move the disk with its plug to and from a disk cassette. Since there is no unplugging and unplugging of plug halves and a more simple robot arrangement is possible, the generation of particles which can cause magnetic defects in the manufactured magnetic media disk is minimized.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic disk handler system comprising: a carrier panel; aperture means in said carrier panel for mounting a series of blank disks in said carrier panel, each of said disks having a circular central aperture; a one-piece central plug for temporarily closing the central aperture and for holding each said disk; a first disk cassette for holding unprocessed blank disks; a second disk cassette for receiving processed disks; first means for inserting an entry first portion on one side of said plug into the central aperture of a blank disk from one side only of said disk, said plug including a flange having a diameter greater than the diameter of said disk central aperture; first robotic arm means grippable on a second portion of said plug on an opposite side of said plug for transporting and inserting successive ones of said blank disks from said first disk cassette into said carrier panel; said plug having a cylindrical portion between said entry first portion and said flange for seating on an edge portion of said disk central aperture when said robotic arm means is not gripping said plug and when said disk in said carrier is being process coated with a data storage media; second means grippable on said second portion of said plug for removing a processed disk from said carrier panel and transporting the processed disk to said second disk cassette; third means for inserting the processed disk into said second disk cassette; and wherein said third means removes said plug from said disc central aperture and from said one side only of said disc, such that said disc without a plug remains in said second cassette. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said second means includes said first robotic arm means. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said third means includes said first robotic arm means. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said second means and third means each include said first robotic arm means. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said plug second portion includes a knob on a distal end opposite the plug entry first portion, said first robotic arm means being grippable on said knob for transporting a blank disk and a processed disk. 6. The system of claim 1 in which said third means further functions for removing said plug from a processed disk and for returning said plug for attachment to another blank disk in a first disk cassette. 7. A method of manufacturing a data storage disk having a central aperture comprising: providing a carrier panel having a series of spaced apertures for mounting a series of blank disks therein; providing a first disk cassette for holding unprocessed blank disks; placing by a robotic arm a one-piece plug including a flange into a disk central aperture of a disk from one side only of said disk in the first disk cassette; abutting the flange against a disk wall surrounding the disk central aperture; lifting and removing by the robotic arm said plug along with the disk from the first disk cassette; transporting and inserting by the robotic arm successive ones of said blank disk and associated ones of said plugs from said first disk cassette to said spaced aperture of said carrier panel in seriatim, each of said plugs having a cylindrical portion between an entry portion insertable into a spaced aperture of said carrier panel and the plug flange; seating the plug cylindrical portion on an edge portion of the aperture of said carrier panel; removing the robotic arm from said plug; coating both sides of the disks in the carrier panel with a data storage media; removing the plug and an associated then-coated processed disk from said aperture of said carrier panel by gripping said plug and moving said plug and the then-coated processed disk by the robotic arm; transporting by the robotic arm each coated processed disk and associated plug to a second disk cassette for receiving coated processed disks; inserting the coated processed disk into the second disk cassette; and removing the plug by the robotic arm from said one side only of the coated processed disk. 8. The method of claim 7 further including returning the plug by the robotic arm to another blank disk in a first disk cassette. 9. The method of claim 7 in which said coating step comprises exposing the disks to a plasma of magnetic media. 