The invention concerns the automated robotic system for dispensing drugs from vials into liquid containers such as IV bags or syringes. A robot selects a vial and a suitable container and transports them to a processing station together with a needle which may be double-ended. At the processing station the contents of the vial are transferred into the container. Some of the contents of the container may be transferred into the vial in order to reconstitute and/or wash out the vial contents and agitation may be provided for the vial. Various additional devices may be provided such as a decapping device for the vials, an alcohol swabbing station for swabbing the top of a vial and/or the input port of a IV bag or syringe. Moreover, a label printer may be provided so that the robot may deliver a label with the finally processed IV bag and empty vial to a verification station. When IV bags are used, the invention may feature a conveyor of trays of the bags to a pick-up station of the robot. The trays add rigidity to the bags so that they can be handled by the robot. To present needles to the robot, needle trays may be used in which needles lie in parallel one to the other in pick-up position. The robot may have gripping fingers having one gripping surface for gripping a vial and another gripping surface for gripping a needle or solution container. The containers may be provided with shaped portions for gripping by either of the robot gripping surfaces. Vial dispensers may be a chute or a series of chutes which present vials to specific pick-up locations from which the robot can select a vial in accordance with prescription data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated robotic dispensing system for introducing a unit drug dose from a vial having a top diaphragm pierceable by a needle into a container of solute therefor, comprising: a filling station enclosed in a filtered environment, the filling station comprising a manipulating robot, a vial dispenser, a container dispenser, at least a needle pick-up location of a needle dispenser, a processing unit, a loading location of an output for processed containers, and a discard location; the robot being programmed to: (a) receive a said vial containing a said unit drug dose from a vial pick-up location of the vial dispenser and deliver it to a vial reception location of the processing unit; (b) receive a said container from the container dispenser at a container pick-up location and deliver the container to a container reception location of the processing unit; (c) receive a said needle from the needle dispenser at the needle pick-up location and deliver the needle to a needle holder of the processing unit; (d) receive the processed container from the processing unit and deliver it to the output; (e) receive the empty vial from the processing unit and deliver it to the output; and (f) receive the used needle from the processing unit and discard it to a discard location; the vial dispenser being adapted to hold a plurality of vials each containing a said drug dose and to deliver them sequentially to the vial pick-up location; the container dispenser being adapted to hold a plurality of containers each container containing solute for the drug dose and to deliver them sequentially to the container pick-up location; the needle dispenser being adapted to hold a plurality of double-ended needles and to deliver them sequentially to the needle pick-up location; the processing unit including means for moving a said vial, a said needle and a said corresponding container into fluid communication through the needle, and means for flowing fluid from the container to the vial and vice-versa to dissolve the unit drug dose and transfer the solution to the container. 2. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the containers are IV bags. 3. An automated robot dispensing system as claimed in claim 2, in which the output comprises a chute having the loading location within the filtered environment and a discharge location outside it. 4. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 2, in which the vial pick-up location is one of a set of vial pick-up locations. 5. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 2, in which the container dispenser comprises an elongate hook adapted to releasably hold a row of IV bags, separated by stepping advance means secured to an endless belt conveyor, whereby each bag is advanced one step on each stepped advance of the conveyor. 6. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 5, in which the processing unit includes needle gripping means for the needle adapted to hold it vertical; vial gripping means for a said vial adapted to locate the vial such that the diaphragm vial top is located to be pierced by the needle on closing movement between the needle and the vial; and tray gripping means for an IV bag tray adapted to locate the tray such that an input port of the bag is located to be pierced by the needle on closing movement between the need and the tray. 7. An automatic robotic dispensing system a claimed in claim 6, in which: first slide means are provided to move the vial gripping means and hence the vial vertically upwardly towards the needle by an amount at least sufficient for the needle to pierce the diaphragm vial top; and second slide means are provided to move the tray gripping means and hence the bag vertically downwardly towards the needle by an amount at least sufficient for the needle to pierce the input port seal(s) of the container. 8. An automatic robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 7, in which means are provided to agitate the vial by rotation of the vial about an acute angle whose apex is substantially at a needle insertion point. 9. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 7, in which: the vial gripping means, the needle gripping means and the tray gripping means are rotatable as a unit between a first position in which they are vertically located one above another with the vial gripping means being lowermost; and a second position in which they are vertically located one above another with the tray gripping means being lowermost. 10. An automated dispensing system as claimed in claim 5, in which the processing unit includes needle gripping means for the needle adapted to hold it vertical; vial gripping means for the vial adapted to locate the vial such that the diaphragm vial top is located to be pierced by the needle on closing movement between the needle and the vial; the hook for the IV bag to locate it such that an input port of the bag is in a location to be pierced by the needle in closing movement between the needle and the bag; and means to clamp the input port in said location. 11. An automated dispensing system as claimed in claim 10, in which the clamping means comprises a first pair of clamping bars adapted to hold the input port therebetween. 12. An automated dispensing system as claimed in claim 11, in which an additional pair of clamping bars is provided acting at right angles to the first pair of clamping bars to stabilize the position of the bag. 13. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 10, in which: first slide means are provided to move the vial gripping means and hence the vial vertically upwardly towards the needle by an amount at least sufficient for the needle to pierce the diaphragm vial top; and second slide means are provided to move the IV bag vertically downwardly towards the needle by an amount at least sufficient for the needle to pierce the input port seal of the container. 14. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 10, in which means are provided to agitate the vial by rotation of the vial about an acute angle whose apex is substantially at the needle insertion point. 15. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 10, in which: the vial gripping means, the needle gripping means and the hook are rotatable as a unit between a first position in which they are vertically located one above another with the vial gripping means being lowermost; and a second position in which they are vertically located one above another with the hook being lowermost and the bag being supported by the clamping means. 16. An automated robotic system as claimed in claim 1, including an alcohol swabbing station for the vials and containers. 17. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 16, in which the alcohol swabbing station comprises an absorbent swabbing web at a swab location, and means to impregnate the web with alcohol at the swab location; the robot being additionally programmed to contact the top diaphragm of the vial and/or an input port of the container with the web at said location before delivery of the vial and/or the container to the processing unit; and stepping means to advance the web a step after each contact of the diaphragm or input port. 18. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the vials are initially capped over the diaphragm top and the robot is adapted to uncap each vial. 19. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, which includes a label printing device and in which the robot is additionally programmed to receive a label from the labelling device and deliver it to the chute. 20. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the vial dispenser comprises at least one inclined chute having the vial pick-up location, the chute being adapted to receive a specifically sized vial. 21. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 20, in which the vial fits between walls of the chute. 22. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 20, in which the vial dispenser comprises more than one inclined chute, different ones of which are adapted for different sizes of vials. 23. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 22, in which the robot is programmed to select a said vial from the pick-up location of a particular chute according to prescription data. 24. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the container dispenser comprises a conveyor in combination with trays, the conveyor comprising a belt of interlinked slats, and each tray being adapted to contain the IV bag and being hingeably connectable to the slat of the conveyor at an edge of the tray. 25. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the needle dispenser comprises stacked needle containing trays located in a well of a floor of the filling station, first biasing means adapted to bias the stacked trays upwardly whereby the top tray has a location at least at floor level of the filling station; releasable retaining means adapted to retain the top tray in said location for removal of the needles therefrom; second biasing means adapted to bias the top tray towards the discard location; and releasing means adapted to release said retaining means whereby the top tray is moved by said second biassing means to the discard position. 26. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 25, in which each needle containing tray is adapted to contain needles arranged one parallel to another for sequential removal by the robot. 27. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 26, in which each needle containing tray is adapted to contain needles with end portions thereof located to each side of an axis of the needle containing tray. 28. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 27, in which the processing unit includes means for agitating the vial by rotation of the vial about an acute angle whose apex is substantially at a needle insertion point. 29. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 28, in which: first slide means are provided to move the vial gripping means and hence the vial vertically upwardly towards the needle by an amount at least sufficient for the needle to pierce the diaphragm vial top; and second slide means are provided to move the container gripping means and hence the container vertically downwardly towards the needle by an amount at least sufficient for the needle to pierce the input port seal(s) of the container. 30. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the needle dispenser comprises a container for loose needles, a chute outlet from the container, a funnel to orientate needles in a selected direction, a dispensing gate for individual oriented needles and gripping means for an oriented needle at the pick-up location. 31. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the processing unit includes needle gripping means for the needle adapted to hold it vertical; vial gripping means for the vial adapted to locate the vial such that the diaphragm vial top is located to be pierced by the needle on relative vertical movement between the needle and the vial, and container holding means for the container adapted to locate the container such that an input port of the container is located to be pierced by the needle on relative vertical movement between the needle and the container. 32. An automated robotic dispensing system as claimed in claim 1, in which the output comprises the chute having the loading location within the filtered environment and a lower discharge end outside the filtered environment and the output also comprising a receiving tray for each of an IV bag and its respective vial from which it has received a drug dose, and a conveyor adapted to convey each tray from the lower discharge chute end to a delivery location. 33. An automated process for introducing, in a filling station in a filtered environment, a unit drug dose from a vial having a top diaphragm pierceable by a needle into a container of solute therefore, the filling station comprising a manipulating robot, a vial dispenser, a container dispenser, at least a needle pick-up location of a needle dispenser, a processing unit, a loading location of an output for processed containers and a discard location, comprising the steps of: sequentially delivering a said vial to a pick-up location of the vial dispenser which is adapted to hold a plurality of vials each containing a said unit drug dose; sequentially delivering a said container to a pick-up location of the container dispenser which is adapted to hold a plurality of containers containing solute for the unit drug dose; and sequentially delivering a said needle to the pick-up location of the needle dispenser which is adapted to hold a plurality of double-ended needles; and the robot receiving a said vial containing a said unit drug dose from the vial pick-up location of the vial dispenser and delivering it to a vial reception location of the processing unit; the robot receiving a said container from the container dispenser at the container pick-up location and delivering the container of a container reception location of the processing unit; the robot receiving a said needle from the needle dispenser at the needle pick-up location and delivering the needle to a needle holder of the processing unit; at the processing unit, moving a said vial, a said needle and a said corresponding container into fluid communication through the needle, and flowing fluid from the container to the vial and vice-versa to dissolve the unit drug dose and transfer the solution to the container; the robot receiving the processed container from the processing unit and delivering it to the output conveyor; the robot receiving the empty vial from the processing unit and delivering it to the output; and the robot receiving the used needle from the processing unit and discarding it to a discard location. 34. A process as claimed in claim 33, including the step of programming the robot. 35. A process as claimed in claim 34, in which the robot selects a said vial from a plurality of pick-up locations according to prescription data. 36. A process as claimed in claim 33, including the step of the robot decapping an initially capped vial on reception from the vial pick-up location to uncover the diaphragm. 37. A process as claimed in claim 33, in which the containers are IV bags. 38. A process as claimed in claim 33, in which the filling station is enclosed in the filtered environment. 39. A process as claimed in claim 38, which also includes the step of the robot presenting each of the decapping vial and the container at an alcohol swabbing station and swabbing the diaphragm and an input port of the container with alcohol. 40. A process as claimed in claim 33, including the step of the robot receiving a label from a label printing device and delivering it to the output. 41. A process as claimed in claim 33, which includes, at the processing unit, moving a said vial, a said needle and a said corresponding container into fluid communication through the needle, and transferring the liquid drug solution to the container from the vial. 