A ferroelectric motor comprises a single layer of ferroelectric material electrically excited by an array of electrical contacts and an electrical excitation source for supplying phased electrical signals to the contacts thereby creating a travelling wave of mechanical deformation in the ferroelectric layer and actuating an actuator. In alternative embodiments of the invention, the actuator may be linear or rotary. The motor may be fabricated on a single integrated circuit die, in which case the layer of ferroelectric material may be a thin film of PZT. In other embodiments a motor may comprise two dies which are sandwiched together by wafer to wafer bonding. Portions of a die may be removed to permit a linear actuator to project beyond the die.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motor comprising a substrate; a stator comprising a thin film formed on said substrate by spinning a sol of ferroelectric material onto said substrate, and an array of contacts in electrical contact with said thin film; an actuator in frictional contact with said stator; and an electrical excitation source for supplying phased electrical signals to said contacts, the phase and amplitude of said signals being such as to produce a travelling wave of mechanical deformation in said ferroelectric thin film and thereby cause movement of said actuator relative to said stator. 2. The motor of claim 1 wherein said thin film is substantially less than 10 microns in thickness. 3. The motor of claim 1 wherein said thin film is substantially less than 1 micron in thickness. 4. The motor of claim 1 further comprising capacitive regions on said actuator and said stator for providing a normal force to frictionally engage said actuator and stator. 5. The motor of claim 1 wherein said contacts serve as elastic bodies for mechanically amplifying the travelling wave generated in said ferroelectric thin film and coupling the wave to said actuator. 6. The motor of claim 5 further comprising a wear layer between said contacts and said actuator. 7. The motor of claim 1 wherein said array of contacts is arranged in a linear pattern and said actuator moves in linear relation to said stator. 8. The motor of claim 7 further comprising a strap for retaining said actuator, two ends of said strap being connected to said substrate and the mid region of said strap extending over said linear actuator. 9. The motor of claim 1 wherein said array of contacts is arranged in a rotary pattern and said actuator moves in rotary relation to said stator. 10. The motor of claim 1 wherein said thin film is a crack-free film which has been annealed at a high temperature. 11. The motor of claim 1 or 10 wherein said ferroelectric material comprises lead zirconium titanate (PZT). 12. The motor of claim 11 further comprising an infrared sensor formed form said thin film. 13. A semiconductor die having a motor-driven movable appendage, comprising a semiconductor substrate; at least two stators each comprising a thin film formed on said substrate by spinning a sol of ferroelectric material onto said substrate, and an array of contacts in electrical contact with said thin film; one or more actuators in frictional contact with said stators; an appendage mechanically coupled to said one or more actuators; and an electrical excitation source for supplying phased electrical signals to said contacts, the phase and amplitude of said signals being such as to produce a travelling wave of mechanical deformation in said ferroelectric thin film and thereby cause movement of said one or more actuators relative to said stators and movement of said appendage relative to said die. 14. The semiconductor die of claim 13 wherein said die includes first and second actuators; the arrays of contacts of said stators are each arranged in a linear pattern and said actuators move in linear relation to said stators; and each actuator moves along a direction skew to the direction of motion of the other said actuator. 15. The semiconductor die of claim 14 wherein each actuator moves along a direction transverse to the direction of motion of the other said actuator. 16. The semiconductor die of claim 14 wherein said appendage is rotatably coupled o one said actuator so that movement of that said actuator moves the axis of rotation of said appendage and wherein said second actuator engages said appendage at a location spaced from said axis of rotation so that movement of said second actuator causes rotation of said actuator about said axis of rotation. 