A system and method for manufacturing an article that is formed by the incremental buildup of layers on a work surface contains a material deposition station to deposit the layers. In addition, a plurality of processing stations are employed. Each processing station performs a separate function such that when the functions are performed in series, a layer of the article is produced and is prepared for the deposition of the next layer. An article transfer apparatus repetitively moves the work surface and any layers formed thereon selectively among the deposition station and the processing stations. The article transfer apparatus continues to move between the processing stations until each layer is processed and a completely manufactured article is produced.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated system for manufacturing an article that is formed by the incremental buildup of layers onto a work surface comprising: a movable work surface onto which layers are deposited to form the article; a material deposition station sized and positioned to receive the moveable work surface, where each layer of the article is deposited onto at least one of the work surface, a substrate placed on the work surface and a preceding layer, wherein each layer deposited on a preceding layer is simultaneously deposited and bonded to the preceding layer to form a portion of the article; at least one processing station sized and positioned to receive the moveable work surface, each processing station capable of performing a desired operation on selected layers of the article; and an article transfer apparatus sized and positioned for repetitively placing, removing and returning the work surface and any layers formed thereon at the deposition station and at the at least one processing station until each layer is processed and a completely manufactured article is produced. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the material deposition station is a thermal spray deposition assembly. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the material deposition station is a weld deposition assembly. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the processing stations include at least one group consisting of a shot peener, a cleaner, a heat treatment unit, a blaster, a shaper, an inspection device and a mask maker. 5. The system of claim 1 also comprising a control station for automatically operating at least one of the article transfer station and at least one processing station. 6. An automated system for manufacturing an article that is formed by the incremental buildup of layers onto a work surface comprising: a moveable work surface onto which layers are deposited to form the article; a material deposition station sized and positioned to receive the moveable work surface, where each layer of the article is deposited onto at least one of the work surface, a substrate placed on the work surface and a preceding layer; at least one processing station sized and positioned to receive the moveable work surface, each processing station capable of performing a desired operation on selected deposited layers of the article; a complementary material deposition means for applying complementary material to at least one of the work surface and selected layers of deposition material, the complementary deposition means positioned in one of the material deposition station and a separate processing station; and an article transfer apparatus sized and positioned for repetitively placing, removing and returning the work surface and any layers formed thereon at the deposition station and at the at least one processing station until each layer is processed and a completely manufactured article is produced. 7. An automated system for manufacturing an article that is formed by the incremental buildup of layers onto a work surface comprising: (a) a moveable work surface onto which layers are deposited to form the article; (b) a material deposition station sized and positioned to receive the moveable work surface, where each layer of the article is deposited onto at least one of the work surface, a substrate placed on the work surface and a preceding layer, wherein the deposition station comprises: (i) a work table for receiving the moveable work surface; (ii) a series of material delivery devices for depositing material onto at least one of the moveable work surface and a preceding layer of deposited material, the devices including at least one of thermal spray heads and welders; and (iii) a robotic device which can acquire at least one material delivery device and move the acquired material delivery device relative to the work surface to apply a layer onto the work surface; (c) at least one processing station sized and positioned to receive the moveable work surface, each processing station capable of performing a desired operation on selected deposited layers of the article; and (d) an article transfer apparatus sized and positioned for repetitively placing, removing and returning the work surface and any layers formed thereon at the deposition station and at the at least one processing station until each layer is processed and a completely manufactured article is produced. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the work table is movable relative to the robotic device. 9. The system of claim 7 also comprising an inspection device attached to the robotic device. 10. A method of manufacturing an article that is formed by the incremental buildup of layers on a work surface, comprising the steps of: a) providing a moveable work surface on which layers are deposited, the moveable work surface being moveable by an article transfer apparatus; b) placing the moveable work surface in a material deposition station where at least one layer of deposition material is deposited onto at least one of the work surface and a preceding layer, wherein each layer deposited on a preceding layer is simultaneously deposited and bonded to the preceding layer to form a portion of the article; c) removing the moveable work surface from the material deposition station; d) placing the moveable work surface and any layers deposited thereon in at least one processing station, where each processing station performs a desired function on selected layers; e) removing the moveable work surface having at least one processed layer thereon from the processing station; and f) repeating at least some of steps b through e until all layers have been deposited and all selected layers have been processed. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the deposition station is a thermal spray deposition assembly. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the deposition station is a weld deposition assembly. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the processing stations include at least one of a shot peener, a cleaner, a blaster, a heat treatment unit, a shaper, an inspection device and a mask maker. 14. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of inspecting selected layers. 15. The method of claim 10 also comprising the steps of placing a substrate on the work surface and depositing the deposition material on the substrate. 16. The method of claim 10 wherein at least one of the steps is automatically controlled by a control station. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the control station responds to data from a CAD system. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein a plurality of movable work surfaces are provided to permit a plurality articles to be manufactured simultaneously. 19. A method of manufacturing an article that is formed by the incremental buildup of layers on a work surface, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a moveable work surface on which layers are deposited, the moveable work surface being moveable by an article transfer apparatus; (b) placing the moveable work surface in a material deposition station where at least one layer of deposition material is deposited onto at least one of the work surface and a preceding layer; (c) removing the moveable work surface from the material deposition station; (d) placing the moveable work surface and any layers deposited thereon in at least one processing station, where each processing station performs a desired function on selected deposited layers; (e) applying a layer of a complementary material before one of steps b and d; and (f) removing the moveable work surface having at least one processed layer thereon from the processing station; (g) repeating at least some of steps b through f until all layers have been deposited and all selected layers have been processed. 