An apparatus for uniformly coating a planar substrate with an adhesive layer has a rotatably mounted sleeve with closed ends to form an internal cavity therein. The sleeve has a plurality of holes therein and its outer surface is covered by a porous layer such as a foam layer. A vacuum is applied to the sleeve cavity, while the sleeve is rotated. One surface of a polymeric film is positioned on the porous layer and held in place by the vacuum acting through the sleeve holes and porous layer. The other surface of the polymeric film contains a uniform adhesive coating. The surface of a planar substrate is tangentially transported past the polymeric film surface with the adhesive layer and in timed registration therewith, so that a nip is formed between the planar substrate and the polymeric film which transfers a uniformly thick portion of adhesive to the planar substrate surface.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for uniformly coating a planar substrate with an adhesive layer, comprising: (a) a rotatably mounted sleeve having an axis, a cylindrical outer surface, and closed ends which form an internal cavity in the sleeve, the sleeve having a plurality of holes therein which penetrate the sleeve outer surface in a direction perpendicular to the sleeve axis; (b) a porous layer of foam being formed on the sleeve outer surface; (c) means for rotating the sleeve about the sleeve axis at a predetermined angular velocity; (d) means for applying a vacuum to the sleeve cavity from a vacuum source, while the sleeve is being rotated by said rotating means; (e) a flexible sheet of polymeric film forming material having a predetermined shape and two opposing surfaces, one surface of the flexible sheet being positioned against the porous layer of foam on the sleeve and firmly held in place thereon by the vacuum in the sleeve cavity acting through the sleeve holes and porous layer of foam, the other surface of the flexible sheet having a uniform adhesive coating thereon of predetermined thickness; and (f) means for transporting a planar substrate having a surface with recesses therein tangentially past the flexible sheet at a predetermined speed, the transporting means having heater means to heat the planar substrate to a predetermined temperature and concurrently moving the planar substrate into timed registration with the surface of the flexible sheet having the adhesive coating as said flexible sheet is rotated by the sleeve about the sleeve axis, thereby forming a nip between the planar substrate and the flexible sheet, the transporting means coacting with the porous layer of foam on the sleeve to apply a predetermined pressure between the flexible sheet and planar substrate, so that a consistently uniform thickness of the layer of adhesive is transferred to a plurality of the planar substrates one at a time. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the porous foam layer has a thickness of 3 to 6 mm. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the porous foam layer is a polysulphone foam. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible sheet is a Mylar film disk having a thickness of 100 to 150 .mu.m and a diameter of 5 inches or 12.7 cm, and wherein the adhesive thickness on the film disk is about 3 .mu.m. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the planar substrate is a silicon wafer having a diameter of 3.5 to 4 inches or 8.9 to 10.2 cm. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the wafer is 20 mils or 500 .mu.m thick. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the predetermined temperature of the wafer is 65.degree..+-.1 .degree. C., wherein the predetermined pressure between the film disk and wafer is about 5 pounds per square inch (psi), and wherein the uniform transferred thickness of adhesive is 1 to 2 .mu.m. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein a flat annular ring of polymeric film forming material having an outer diameter larger and an inner diameter smaller than the film disk and having a thickness of 100 to 150 .mu.m is attached to the porous layer on the sleeve at a predetermined location on which the film disk is to be positioned, so that the outer edge of the film disk resides on said annular ring and receives any adhesive that may inadvertently spread from the film disk, thereby preventing the adhesive from contaminating the porous layer of foam and providing a surface that may be readily cleaned. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the planar substrate has a diameter less than the inner diameter of the annular ring, so that only the center portion of the adhesive layer on the film disk is placed in contact with the planar substrate surface when the means for transporting the planar substrate moves the planar substrate tangentially past and in timed registration with the film disc surface having the adhesive layer thereon. 10. Apparatus for uniformly coating a planar substrate with an adhesive layer, comprising: (a) a rotatably mounted sleeve having an axis, a cylindrical outer surface, and closed ends which form an internal cavity in the sleeve, the sleeve having a plurality of holes therein which penetrate the sleeve outer surface in a direction perpendicular to the sleeve axis; (b) a porous layer being formed on the sleeve outer surface, wherein the porous layer is a neoprene layer having holes therein in alignment with the holes in the sleeve and has a thickness of 1 to 2 mm. (c) means for rotating the sleeve about the sleeve axis at a predetermined angular velocity; (d) means for applying a vacuum to the sleeve cavity from a vacuum source, while the sleeve is being rotated by said rotating means; (e) a flexible sheet of polymeric film forming material having a predetermined shape and two opposing surfaces, one surface of the flexible sheet being positioned against the porous neoprene layer on the sleeve and firmly held in place thereon by the vacuum in the sleeve cavity acting through the sleeve holes and porous neoprene layer, the other surface of the flexible sheet having a uniform adhesive coating thereon of predetermined thickness; and (f) means for transporting a planar substrate having a surface with recesses therein tangentially past the flexible sheet at a predetermined speed, the transporting means having heater means to heat the planar substrate to a predetermined temperature and concurrently moving the planar substrate into timed registration with the surface of the flexible sheet having the adhesive coating as said flexible sheet is rotated by the sleeve about the sleeve axis, thereby forming a nip between the planar substrate and the flexible sheet, the transporting means coacting with the porous neoprene layer on the sleeve to apply a predetermined pressure between the flexible sheet and planar substrate, so that a consistently uniform thickness of the layer of adhesive is transferred to a plurality of the planar substrates one at a time. 