Methods of programming mechanical manipulators are disclosed that permit a mechanical manipulator to be programmed to perform coordinated motions between one or more modules comprised of equipment with which the manipulator will interact by defining an origin point and one or more frame points related to each of the modules relative to the origin point. Each of the modules associated with a frame point is then identified and a module program describing pre-programmed manipulator motions related to each of the modules is accessed. Finally, a sequence of motions between the origin and each of the frame points of the modules is defined. The step of locating frame points can be carried out in several different ways, using a teach pendant or by automatically locating the module frame points using an infrared sensor, electric field sensor, acoustic sensor, or force sensor. Methods of programming a mechanical manipulator to move between an origin point and one or more modules are also disclosed which comprise the steps of creating a programming element representative of each module and its corresponding module program. An origin frame point is again defined and the programming elements are assembled to correspond to one or more modules that represent the desired manipulator motion. Finally, the frame point of each of the selected modules is defined relative to the origin point. The programming elements can be comprised of commands, portions of a computer program or icons that represent the module and module program. In a preferred embodiment, each of the module programs begins and ends with the manipulator at a safe point defined as a point from which the manipulator may move in at least one direction without encountering an obstruction. Methods of controlling a manipulator after it has encountered an obstruction are also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for programming a mechanical manipulator to perform coordinated motions between one or more modules comprised of one or more pieces of equipment with which the manipulator will interact, the method comprising: defining an origin point; defining one or more frame points associated with each of said modules relative to the origin point by moving the manipulator until it is in registration with a fixture portion of a module that identifies a frame point; entering information identifying each of said modules; accessing stored information describing pre-programmed manipulator motions related to each of the modules; and defining a sequence of motions between the origin point and each of the frame points associated with said modules and using the stored information accessed to execute a pre-defined series of motions related to said module; detecting contract between the mechanical manipulator and an obstruction, and when contact is detected; relaxing the mechanical manipulator; and defining the relaxed position as a final destination. 2. A method for programming a mechanical manipulator to perform coordinated motions between one or more modules comprised of: one or more pieces of equipment with which the manipulator will interact the method comprising: defining an origin point; defining one or more frame points associated with each of said modules relative to the origin point by moving the manipulator using a teach pendant until it is in registration with at least one fixture apparatus inserted into a module that identifies a frame point; entering information identifying each of said modules; accessing stored information describing pre-programmed manipulator motions related to each of the modules; and defining a sequence of motions between the origin point and each of the frame points associated with said modules and using the stored information accessed to execute a pre-defined series of motions related to said module. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the frame points is defined by moving the manipulator to the frame points using a teach pendant. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the steps of inserting an adaptor into the mechanical manipulator that precisely defines a manipulator end point and moving the manipulator until the manipulator end point is in registration with a frame point. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the frame points are defined by entering data describing said points into a memory device that controls the mechanical manipulator. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of defining the frame points comprises detecting a frame point and recording data describing the location of the frame point in a memory device that controls the mechanical manipulator. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of detecting a frame point comprises emitting and receiving electromagnetic energy. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of detecting a frame point comprises detecting the strength of an electric field surrounding the frame point. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of detecting a frame point comprises emitting and receiving acoustic energy. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of detecting a frame point comprises sensing a force. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of detecting the frame point is preceded by the step of moving the manipulator into the approximate location of the frame point. 12. A method of programming a mechanical manipulator to move between an origin point and one or more modules comprising equipment with which the manipulator will interact, the modules requiring a sequence of manipulator movements contained in a module program that are defined relative to a module frame point, the method comprising the steps of: creating a programming element representative of each module to identify each module and its corresponding module program; defining an origin frame point; assembling the programming elements one or more selected modules to represent a programmed manipulator motion; and defining the frame point of each of said selected modules relative to the origin frame point. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the programming elements comprise at least a portion of a computer program. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the programming elements comprise one or more commands in a programming language. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the programming elements comprise icons that represent the module and access the module program. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the module programs begin and end at a safe point defining a position from which the manipulator may move in one or more predetermined directions without encountering an obstruction. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of defining the path of the manipulator between the first point and each of the module frame points. 18. A method for programming a mechanical manipulator to perform coordinated motions between one or more modules comprised of one or more pieces of equipment with which the manipulator will interact, the method comprising: defining an origin point; defining one or more frame points related to each of said modules relative to the origin point; identifying each of said modules; accessing stored information describing pre-programmed manipulator motions related to each of the modules and the defined frame points; and defining a sequence of motions between the origin point and each of the frame points of said modules and using the stored information accessed, wherein upon moving the manipulator between the origin point and each of the frame points upon detecting contact between the mechanical manipulator and an obstruction the method of programming comprises the further steps of; relaxing the mechanical manipulator; and defining the relaxed position as a final destination. 19. A method for programming a mechanical manipulator to perform coordinated motions between one or more modules comprised of one or more pieces of equipment with which the manipulator will interact, the method comprising: defining the origin point; defining one or more frame points related to each of said modules relative to the origin point by inserting a fixture into a module to precisely define a frame point and moving the manipulator until it is in registration with the precisely defined frame point, wherein at least one of the frame points is defined by moving the manipulator to the frame point using a teach pendant; identifying each of said modules; accessing stored information describing pre-programmed manipulator motions related to each of the modules and the defined frame points; and defining a sequence of motions between the origin point and each of the frame points of said modules and using the stored information accessed. 