The invention fulfills new goals for redundancy resolution based on manipulator dynamics and end-effector characteristics. These goals are accomplished by employing the recently developed configuration control approach. Redundancy resolution is achieved by controlling the joint inertia matrix or the end-effector mass matrix that affect the inertial torques, or by reducing the joint torques due to gravity loading and payload. The manipulator mechanical-advantage and velocity-ratio are also used as performance measures to be improved by proper utilization of redundancy. Furthermore, end-effector compliance, sensitivity, and impulsive force at impact are introduced as redundancy resolution criteria. The new goals for redundancy resolution allow a more efficient utilization of the redundant joints based on the desired task requirements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to a minimization of gravity loading on said joints, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix operator, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of a gravity loading function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition; and, controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said minimization of gravity loading. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said gravity loading function is a function of the angles of all of said n joints and comprises a sum over all of said n joints of squares of elements of a vector of gravity loading on respective joints. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said gravity loading function is defined in terms of n individual weighting factors associated with respective ones of said n joints, said weighting factors determining the joints for which gravity loading is minimized. 4. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to a minimization of joint inertia on said joints, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix operator, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of a joint inertia function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition; and controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said minimization of joint inertia. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said joint inertia function is a function of the angles of all of said n joints and comprises a sum over all of said n joints of off-diagonal joint-coupling elements of a joint inertia matrix for each one of said joints. 6. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to an optimization of joint mechanical advantage of said joints, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix opertor, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of a joint mechanical advantage function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition whereby to minimize joint mechanical advantage; and controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said optimization of joint mechanical advantage. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said joint mechanical advantage function is a function of the angles of said joints and comprises a projection of an end effector Jacobian matrix of a respective joint and a unit vector of a direction of applied force of an end effector for each joint. 8. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to an optimization of an end effector-to-joint angle velocity ratio, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix operator, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of an end effector-to-joint angle velocity ratio function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition; and, controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said optimization of an end effector-to-joint angle velocity ratio. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said end effector-to-joint angle velocity ratio function comprises projections of end effector Jacobian matrices of respective joints and an angular velocity vector of respective joints. 10. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to optimization of end effector movement sensitivity, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix operator, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of an end effector movement sensitivity function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition; and, controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said optimization of end effector movement sensitivity. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said end effector movement sensitivity function comprises a trace of a product of an end effector Jacobian matrix with its transpose. 12. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to optimization of end effector compliance, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix operator, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of an end effector movement compliance function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition; and, controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said optimization of end effector compliance. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said end effector compliance function comprises a sum of squares of matrix elements of a projection of an end effector Jacobian matrix on a joint stiffness matrix. 14. A method of controlling a redundant robot having n joints operating in m-dimensional task space with redundancy r=n-m, and having an end effector, said method comprising: first defining a basic task motion of said robot within a set of end-effector coordinates, corresponding to m constraints on movement of said n joints; second defining not more than r constraints on said basic task motion corresponding to optimization of end effector impact force, wherein said second defining comprises, defining an n-by-r matrix operator, N.sub.e, spanning a null space of a Jacobian operator of said end-effector, defining an n-by-1 vector which is a partial derivative of an end effector impact force function with respect to angles of said joints, and setting the product of said matrix operator and said vector to zero as a minimization condition; and, controlling said joints so as to simultaneously fulfill the m constraints of said basic task motion and the r constraints of said optimization of end effector impact force. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said end effector impact force function comprises a projection of an end effector mass matrix on a unit vector of an impact force of an end effector. 