Goniometers are provided having internal compensation employing two opposing variable resistance strain sensing elements separated by a flexible film. The goniometers may be used in sets for detecting complex hinge or joint movements, where patterns of hinge or joint positions may be used to define symbols. Algorithms are provided for parsing values from a system of goniometers in motion having information content.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A goniometer capable of following an angle of bending to at least about 115 degrees, said goniometer comprising: an inert thin electrically non-conductive flexible support backing, first and second variable resistance strain sensing elements affixed on opposite sides of said backing; and means for electrically connecting each of said elements. 2. A goniometer according to claim 1, wherein resistance of said sensing elements varies linearly with strain of said sensing elements. 3. A goniometer according to claim 1, wherein said backing is a single film. 4. A goniometer according to claim 1, wherein said backing is two films adhered together. 5. A goniometer according to claim 1 in a fixed U-shape. 6. A goniometer according to claim 5, further comprising means for preventing bending beyond the minimum bend radius. 7. A goniometer according to claim 1, wherein said first and second sensing elements are substantially overlapping. 8. A goniometer according to claim 1, wherein each of said sensing elements is a grid comprising two or more traces of a variable resistance material. 9. A goniometer according to claim 8, wherein said grid has an aspect ratio greater than two, wherein the primary bend axis is parallel to the shorter side and said sensing elements are in the same overlapping orientation. 10. A sensing assembly comprising: a goniometer according to claim 1; a flexible support means, said goniometer affixed at at least two points on the surface of said support means, wherein said goniometer forms a loop away from said surface. 11. A goniometer according to claim 1, capable of following an angle of bending to at least about 115 degrees over a finger joint. 12. A goniometer according to claim 1, wherein said electrically connecting means are capable of connecting each of said first and second strain sensing elements as two legs in a bridge circuit. 13. A goniometer capable of following an angle of bending to at least about 115 degrees, said goniometer comprising: an inert thin electrically non-conductive flexible support backing of from 0.2 to 10 mils in thickness; and first and second variable resistance strain sensing elements affixed on opposite sides of said backing; and means for electrically connecting each of said elements. 14. A goniometer according to claim 13, capable of following an angle of bending to at least about 115 degrees over a finger joint. 15. A goniometer according to claim 13, wherein said electrically connecting means are capable of connecting each of said first and second strain sensing elements as two legs in a bridge circuit. 