A safety interlock system for a robotic apparatus includes a light curtain in combination with ultrasonic sensors to perform a staged interlock to reduce unnecessary alarms or shutdowns. A robotic apparatus, such as a linear travel-type robot system, is protected by a fixed light curtain for detecting intrusion of a foreign object into a work space of the robotic apparatus. Ultrasonic transducers provide signals indicating a distance to an object interrupting the light beams forming the light curtain. An X-axis position of the robotic apparatus is compared with an object distance to determine whether to slow or stop robotic motion. Four stages of response to light beam interruption are provided. If there is no input from the ultrasonic transducer, an interruption of a light beam causes an immediate and complete halting of robotic movement to provide fail-safe operation. If the ultrasonic transducer indicates that the robotic apparatus and object are separated by a safe nominal operating distance, e.g., greater than six feet, an audible alarm is activated but robot maneuvering is not inhibited. If separation is within a warning range of, for example, three to six feet, robot movement speed is reduced and the alarm is activated. Finally, if separation is determined to be less than the minimum value of the warning range, i.e., less than three feet, the robot is fully stopped and the alarm is activated.
Claims I claim: 1. A safety interlock system for detecting a foreign object within a work space, comprising: light curtain means for detecting penetration of said foreign object through a planar area defining one side of said work space and, in response, supplying a penetration detection signal; ultrasonic sensor means for detecting a distance between said foreign object and a device located in said work space and, in response, supplying a distance signal; and control means for supplying a motion control signal to said device for selectively inhibiting movement thereof in response to said penetration detection and distance signals. 2. The safety interlock system according to claim 1 wherein said light curtain means includes: a plurality of light emitters spaced along one boundary of said planar area for transmitting parallel beams of light along said planar area; a plurality of detectors spaced along an opposite boundary of said planar area for detecting respective ones of said parallel beams of light; and detector means for detecting an interruption of said parallel beams of light. 3. The safety interlock system according to claim 1 wherein said ultrasonic sensor means includes: ultrasonic transmitter means responsive to a drive signal for transmitting ultrasonic energy in a direction substantially parallel to said planar area; ultrasonic receiver means for receiving a reflected ultrasonic signal to supply an echo signal; and ranging means responsive a time between said drive and echo signals for supplying said distance signal. 4. The safety interlock system according to claim 1 wherein said ultrasonic sensor means includes: a plurality of ultrasonic transducers vertically spaced at one end of said planar area for transmitting and receiving an ultrasonic signal in a substantially horizontal direction along said planar area; and ranging means responsive to a time interval between transmission of said ultrasonic signal and receipt of a reflected ultrasonic signal for supplying said distance signal. 5. The safety interlock system according to claim 1 wherein said device is responsive to said motion control signal to selectively (i) operate normally, (ii) operate with a reduced operating speed, or (iii) halt movement, and wherein said control means includes: target detection means responsive to said distance signal for supplying a target detect signal in response to said ultrasonic detector means detecting said foreign object; comparator means responsive to said distance signal for determining that said distance between said foreign object and said device is greater than, less than, or within a predetermined warning range of distances and, in response, supplying a trinary state range signal; and logic means responsive to said target detect signal, said range signal and said penetration detection signal for supplying said motion control signal. 6. The safety interlock system according to claim 5 wherein said logic means selectively supplies said motion control signal such that: (i) said operating speed of said device is reduced when said foreign object penetrates said light curtain and is detected within said predetermined range of distances from said protected object; and (ii) movement of said device is halted when said foreign object penetrates said light curtain and said foreign object is not detected by said target detection means or said distance between said foreign object and said device is detected to be less than said predetermined range of distances. 7. The safety interlock system according to claim 1 further comprising: robotic controller means responsive to a stored program for supplying a robotic maneuvering control signal for maneuvering said device; robotic speed control means responsive to said motion control signal and to said robotic maneuvering control signal for controlling a maneuvering speed of said device; and robotic brake means responsive to said motion control signal for halting movement of said device. 8. A robotic control system for providing a motion control signal to a robotic apparatus maneuverable within a work space, comprising: first sensor means for detecting penetration of a foreign object through a planar area defining one side of said work space and, in response, supplying a penetration detection signal; second sensor means for detecting a distance between said foreign object and said robotic apparatus and, in response, supplying a distance signal; control means for supplying a motion inhibit signal in response to said penetration detection and distance signals; memory means for storing a set of instructions; and processor means responsive to said set of instructions and to said motion inhibit signal for supplying said motion control signal to said robotic apparatus whereby a maneuvering speed of said robotic apparatus is selectively reduced in response to detection of said foreign object within said work space posing a collision hazard to said robotic apparatus. 9. The robotic control system according to claim 8 wherein said first sensor means comprises a light curtain including: a plurality of light emitters spaced along one edge of said planar area for transmitting parallel beams of light along said planar area; a plurality of detectors spaced along an opposite edge of said planar area for detecting respective ones of said parallel beams of light; and logic means for detecting an interruption of said parallel beams of light and, in response, supplying said penetration detection signal. 10. The robotic control system according to claim 8 wherein said second sensor means comprises ultrasonic sensor means including: ultrasonic transmitter means responsive to a drive signal for transmitting ultrasonic energy in a direction parallel to said planar area; ultrasonic receiver means for receiving a reflected ultrasonic signal to supply an echo signal; and ranging means responsive a time between said drive signal and said echo signal for supplying said distance signal. 11. The robotic control system according to claim 8 wherein said second sensor means includes: a plurality of ultrasonic transducers vertically spaced at one end of said planar area for transmitting and receiving an ultrasonic signal in a substantially horizontal direction along said planar area; and ranging means responsive to a time between transmission of an ultrasonic signal and receipt of a reflected ultrasonic signal for supplying said distance signal. 12. The robotic control system according to claim 8 wherein said robotic apparatus is responsive to said motion control signal to selectively (i) operate at a nominal maneuvering speed, (ii) operate at a reduced maneuvering speed less than said nominal maneuvering speed, or (iii) halt movement, and wherein said control means includes: target detection means responsive to said distance signal for supplying a target detect signal in response to said ultrasonic detector means detecting said foreign object; comparator means responsive to said distance signal for determining that said distance between said foreign object and said robotic apparatus is greater than, less than, or within a predetermined range of distances and, in response, supplying a trinary state range signal; and logic means responsive to said target detect signal, said range signal and said penetration detection signal for supplying said motion inhibit signal. 13. The robotic control system according to claim 12 wherein said logic means selectively supplies said motion inhibit signal such that: (i) said maneuvering speed of said robotic apparatus is reduced when said foreign object penetrates said planar area and is detected within said predetermined range of distances from said robotic apparatus; and (ii) movement of said robotic apparatus is halted when said foreign object penetrates said planar area and (i) the foreign object is not detected by said target detection means or (ii) said distance between said foreign object and said robotic apparatus is less than said predetermined range of distances. 14. A method of inhibiting operation of a machine upon intrusion of a foreign object within a safety region, comprising the steps of: (i) transmitting a detection signal along one boundary of said safety region to define a planar detection area; (ii) detecting an interruption of said detection signal caused by a penetration of said planar detection area by the foreign object; (iii) transmitting a ranging signal along said planar detection area; (iv) receiving said ranging signal as reflected by said foreign object; (v) calculating a distance between said foreign object and said machine; and (vi) controlling an operating speed of said machine in response to steps (ii) and (v). 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein: said step of transmitting a detection signal includes the step of emitting, from one boundary of said planar detection area, a plurality of parallel light beams along one side of said safety region to an opposite boundary of said planar detection area; and said step of detecting an interruption of said detection signal includes the step of detecting an intensity of said light beams at said opposite boundary of said planar detection area. 16. The method according to claim 14 wherein: said step of transmitting a ranging signal includes the step of emitting an ultrasonic signal; said step of receiving said ranging signal includes a step of receiving an ultrasonic echo signal; and said calculating step includes a step of measuring a time between said emission of said ultrasonic signal and receipt of said ultrasonic echo signal. 17. The method according to claim 14 wherein said controlling step includes the steps of selectively: (i) operating said machine at a nominal maneuvering speed with (a) no foreign object detected penetrating said planar detection area or (b) said distance to said foreign object calculated to be greater than a predetermined range of distances; (ii) operating said machine at a reduced maneuvering speed with said distance to said foreign object calculated to be within said predetermined range of distances; and (iii) halting maneuvering of said machine with said foreign object detected penetrating said planar detection area and a distance to said foreign object (a) calculated to be less than said predetermined range of distances or (b) determined to be an invalid value. 18. The method according to claim 14 wherein said controlling step includes the steps of selectively: (i) verifying reception of a valid ranging signal by said receiving step; (ii) determining that said distance between said foreign object and said moveable object is greater than, less than, or within a predetermined warning range of distances; and (iii) controlling an operating speed of said machine in response to said detecting, verifying and determining steps. 19. A method of maneuvering a robotic apparatus within a work space comprising the steps of: (i) detecting penetration of a foreign object through a planar area defining one side of said work space; (ii) calculating a distance between said foreign object and said robotic apparatus; and (iii) maneuvering said robotic apparatus within said work space responsive to said detecting steps such that a maneuvering speed of said robotic apparatus is selectively reduced in response to detection of said foreign object within said work space posing a collision hazard to said robotic apparatus. 20. The method according to claim 19 wherein said detecting step comprises the steps of: transmitting parallel beams of light along said planar area; detecting respective ones of said parallel beams of light; and detecting an interruption of said parallel beams of light. 21. The method according to claims 19 wherein said calculating step comprises the steps of: transmitting an ultrasonic signal in a direction parallel to said planar area; receiving a reflected ultrasonic signal from said foreign object; and measuring a time between said transmission of ultrasonic signal and said reception of said reflected ultrasonic signal. 22. The method according to claim 19 wherein said maneuvering step comprises the steps of: reducing a maneuvering speed of said robotic apparatus when said foreign object is detected penetrating said planar area and is detected within said predetermined range of distances; and halting movement of said robotic apparatus when said foreign object is detected penetrating said planar area and (i) the foreign object is detected by said calculating step not to be within a range of valid distances or (ii) said distance between said foreign object and said robotic apparatus is calculated to be less than said predetermined range of distances. 