Methods for handling a plurality of sample containers to be processed by an instrument are disclosed. In a preferred embodiment, a retaining device holds the sample containers and is indexed to align one of the sample containers to a position where communication with a sample input port of the instrument is established. A stripper moves a sample container into engagement with the sample port and, most preferably, also urges the sample container into sealing engagement with the sample port. An interference fit created between the stripper an the sample container provides a positive force that permits the sample container to be withdrawn and returned to its initial position. A lower arm assembly is disclosed which acts as a stop relative to the sample container and thus, as the stripper continues to move while the sample container is being withdrawn it overcomes the force of the interference fit and disengages the stripper. The present invention permits a single sample container to be inserted into a thermal zone to reduce the effects of the thermal zone upon samples not being processed. The present invention is also useful for manipulating a plurality of columns such as capillary columns or columns packed with a sorbent.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of handling a plurality of sample containers to be placed into communication with an instrument comprising a sample input port, wherein the plurality of sample containers are disposed in lower arms of a retaining means, and wherein the sample container is guided by a stripper assembly to place the sample container into fluid communication with the input port, the method comprising the steps of: indexing the retaining means to substantially align one of the sample containers with the sample input port; creating a mechanical connection between the sample container and a stripper assembly by moving the stripper assembly through the lower arm to engage an end cap of the sample container; moving the sample container into fluid communication with the input port by displacing the sample container from the retaining means using the stripper assembly and the lower arm; urging the sample container against the input port to create an interference fit connection between the end cap of the sample container and the stripper assembly by moving the stripper assembly and the lower arm together until the lower arm encounters a positive stop that prevents further motion of the lower arm, thereby allowing further motion of the stripper assembly for urging the sample container against the input port; operating the instrument to interact with a sample contained in the sample container; and disengaging the mechanical connection between the sample container and the stripper assembly by moving the stripper assembly and the lower arm together in an opposite direction until the lower arm encounters and abuts a plate that prevents further motion of the lower arm, thereby further motion of the stripper assembly causes the step of disengaging the mechanical connection between the sample container and the stripper assembly. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the retaining means comprises a circular rack disposed about a center axis, wherein the step of indexing the retaining means comprises rotating the circular rack about the center axis for a predetermined portion of a revolution. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of operating the instrument to interact with the sample comprises moving the sample container and the sample contained therein into a thermal zone and performing the operating step while the sample container is disposed within the thermal zone. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising a preliminary step of initializing a position of the retaining means relative to the sample input port. 