Abstract: A method of rapidly assembling many discrete microelectronic or micro-mechanical devices 56 (FIG. 2 ) in a precise configuration (FIG. 8f). The devices are placed randomly on a template (FIG. 3 ) consisting of a pair of oppositely charged planar electrodes. The upper electrode contains a multiplicity of apertures. The template is vibrated and the devices are attracted to the apertures and trapped thereat. The shape of a given aperture determines the number, orientation, and type of device that it traps. The process is completed by mechanically and electrically connecting the devices. The present method for serf-assembly allows many sub-millimeter sized electronic components or other particles to be rapidly assembled into a predetermined configuration. The method relies on vibration and weak electrical or magnetic forces.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for arranging microfabricated devices in a predetermined planar pattern, comprising: (a) a cell or container for containing said microfabricated particles; (b) vibration means for rapidly agitating the particles within the container; (c) a template comprising (1) a first planar electrode overlying an inner surface of said container; (2) a second, parallel planar electrode substantially covering said first electrode, and having a plurality of apertures; and (d) a voltage source applied between the electrodes, whereby the voltage causes electric flux to emanate from each aperture, thus attracting and binding any particle which may randomly approach an aperture under influence of the vibration, allowing rapid assembly of the particles into substantially any desired pattern, as determined by the placement of the apertures. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, in which (a) each particle bears a conductive pad of a shape which is asymmetric with respect to rotation and reflection, and (b) each aperture is substantially identical in shape to said conductive pad, whereby each particle bound to an aperture will be oriented with its conductive pad in overlying and aligned relationship to the aperture, by the principle of minimization of potential energy. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising (a) particles of a first type, each first type of particle having a conductive pad of a predetermined shape on its surface; (b) particles of a second type, each second type of particle having a conductive pad of a second predetermined shape on its surface, said second shape differing from said first shape, and wherein the apertures comprise first apertures whose shapes are substantially identical to the first shape and second apertures whose shapes are substantially identical to the second shape, whereby a voltage applied between the electrodes causes electric flux to emanate from the apertures, thus causing particles of the first type to be bound at the first apertures, and particles of the second type at the second apertures. 4. A method of fabricating an array of spaced discrete particles, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a cell or container; (b) providing a template comprising: (1) a first planar electrode overlying an inner surface of said container; and (2) a second, parallel planar electrode substantially covering said first electrode, and having a plurality of apertures; (c) placing a plurality of the discrete particles in the container; (d) applying a voltage source between the electrodes; and (e) agitating the particles, whereby the voltage causes electric flux to emanate from each aperture, thus attracting and binding any particle which may randomly approach an aperture under influence of the vibration, allowing rapid assembly of the particles into a desired planar pattern, as determined by the placement of the apertures. 5. The method of claim 4, in which (a) each particle bears a conductive pad of a shape which is asymmetric with respect to rotation and reflection, and (b) each aperture is substantially identical in shape to said conductive pad, whereby each particle bound to an aperture will be oriented with its conductive pad in overlying and aligned relationship to the aperture, by the principle of minimization of potential energy. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising (a) particles of a first type, each first type of particle having a conductive pad of a predetermined shape on its surface; (b) particles of a second type, each second type of particle having a conductive pad of a second predetermined shape on its surface, said second shape differing from said first shape, and wherein the apertures comprise first apertures whose shapes are substantially identical to the first shape and second apertures whose shapes are substantially identical to the second shape, whereby a voltage applied between the electrodes causes electric flux to emanate from the apertures, thus attracting and binding particles of the first type to the first apertures, and particles of the second type to the second apertures. 