Power requirements for a robotic system are achieved through the employment of modular-type linear motor (LM) cells of either the one dimensional or two-dimensional type. Increasing system power requirements are met through the utilization of an increasing number of modular linear motor cells precisely positioned upon a common mounting plate to assure proper operation with a common platen. Deviations in the planarity or flatness of the platen and/or linear motor confronting surfaces due, for example, to warpage, temperature fluctuations, machining considerations or the like, are accommodated by mounting each modular LM cell upon a solid suspension member having mounting legs which are machined or otherwise formed from the solid member so as to be compliant in the Z direction only and non-compliant in the mutually perpendicular X and Y directions thereby allowing for movement in the Z direction as well as rotational movement about the X or Y axes to compensate for warpage or non-planarity of the platen and/or linear motor. Each mounting leg has a boss which is provided to enable the compliant legs to undergo proper flexing due to the displacement of the adjacent mounting surface of the LM, provided for by the bosses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mounting system for linear motors and the like comprising: a plurality of two-dimensional linear motors; a common mounting plate; a plurality of compliance attachment members joined to said mounting plate each for attaching an associated linear motor to said mounting plate; and each of said attachment members comprising plural means joined to spaced locations on an associated linear motor for providing compliance independently of one another and only in a direction perpendicular to a plane of said mounting plate. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said linear motors is mounted in such a way as to have a driving means extending in a direction of a working surface of a common platen, each of said linear motors including means for providing an air bearing between said linear motor and said platen. 3. A mounting system for linear motors and the like comprising: a plurality of linear motors: a common mounting plate; a plurality of compliance attachment members each for attaching one of said linear motors to said mounting plate; each of said attachment members comprising means for providing compliance only in a direction perpendicular to a plane of said mounting plate; each compliant attachment member being comprised of a solid block of material having a plurality of integral mounting legs, each of said mounting legs comprising said compliance means and forming a beam spring. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said compliance attachment member is formed of aluminum. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein each compliance attachment member is provided with at least three beam springs. 6. The system of claim 3 wherein each of said legs is provided with a raised boss to provide a clearance gap between adjacent mounting surfaces of said linear motor and said compliance mounting member to permit the beam springs to undergo proper flexing. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said compliance attachment member is an integral part of said mounting plate. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said compliance attachment member is an integral part of said linear motor. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising manipulator means mounted upon a surface of said mounting plate opposite a surface upon which the compliance attachment members are mounted for performing a predetermined robotic function. 10. A linear motor system mounting means comprising: a plurality of two-dimensional linear motors; a common mounting plate; compliance mounting means each joined to said common mounting plate and resiliently mounting an associated linear motor to said common mounting plate; said compliance means providing compliance only in a predetermined direction perpendicular to a plane of said mounting plate while preventing compliance in mutually perpendicular directions to said predetermined direction. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said linear motor system further comprises a common platen; each of said linear motors having forcer means cooperating with said platen to move said linear motor and hence said common mounting plate in mutually perpendicular directions according to control signals applied to said forcer means; and said compliance mounting members being arranged at locations which appropriately align all of said forcer means with the cooperating platen to insure proper movement of the linear motors relative to said platen under control of signals driving said forcer means. 12. The of claim 10 further comprising manipulation means mounted to said common mounting plate upon a surface of said mounting plate opposite a surface upon which the compliance attachment members are mounted for performing a robotic function. 13. A linear motor system mounting means comprising: a plurality of linear motors; a common mounting plate; compliance mounting means each resiliently mounting one of said linear motors to said common mounting plate; said compliance means providing compliance only in a predetermined direction perpendicular to a plane of said mounting plate while preventing compliance in mutually perpendicular directions to said predetermined direction: said compliance mounting means being a mounting member comprised of a block, said compliance means comprising a plurality of compliance members integral with said block; and said compliance members being defined by undercut grooves provided in said block to form compliant beam springs cantilevered from a main body of said block. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising projecting bosses provided on each of said compliance member beam springs to provide proper clearance between confronting surfaces of said linear motors and said compliance mounting block to permit proper flexing of said compliance means. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of linear motors are of a common given size. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein said linear motors are mounted in a uniform array comprised of a plurality of rows and columns which are perpendicular to one another. 17. The system of claim 1 further comprising a manipulation device mounted upon said common mounting plate for movement thereby. 18. The system of claim 1 wherein the means for providing compliance for each attachment member comprises at least three compliant arms secured to three locations on its associated linear motor. 19. The system of claim 1 wherein the compliant arms flex independently of one another. 20. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for operating the linear motors so as to function as the equivalent of a conventional two-dimensional linear motor having motive power which is the sum of the totality of motors mounted upon said common mounting plate. 21. The system of claim 1 wherein said means for providing compliance include means which flex independently of one another to enable the linear motors to yield due to irregularities in the linear motor and in a common platen along which the linear motor system is propelled. 