A three-axis Cartesian robot is described comprising a first horizontally disposed support having a first carriage selectively movably mounted thereon. A second support is operatively secured to the first carriage and extends transversely from the longitudinal axis of the first support. A second carriage is longitudinally movably mounted on the second support and has a third support selectively vertically movably mounted thereon. A dual cable driver traversing pulley is rotated by a reversible drive motor. First and second cable members are wrapped around the traversing pulley in opposite directions. The cable members are operatively connected to the upper and lower ends of the third support by a pulley arrangement. Traverse, horizontal and vertical brakes are provided to control the movement of the carriages and the third support.
Claims I claim: 1. A three-axis Cartesian robot, comprising, a first elongated and horizontally disposed support means having first and second ends, said first support means having a first idler pulley mounted thereon adjacent its said second end, a first carriage longitudinally movably mounted on said first support means, said first carriage having second and third idler pulleys mounted thereon, a first brake means mounted on said first carriage for selectively preventing the movement of said first carriage with respect to said first support means, a second elongated and horizontally disposed support means operatively secured to and extending from said first carriage in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of said first support means, said second support means having inner and outer ends, a fourth idler pulley rotatably mounted on said second support means adjacent the outer end thereof, a second carriage longitudinally movably mounted on said second support means, a second brake means mounted on said second carriage for selectively preventing the movement of said second carriage with respect to said second support means, fifth and sixth idler pulleys rotatably mounted on said second carriage, a third support means operatively vertically movably mounted on said second carriage and having upper and lower ends, a third brake means mounted on said third support means for selectively preventing the vertical movement of said third support means with respect to said second carriage, a reversible drive motor mounted on said first support means adjacent the said first end thereof, and having a dual cable drive pulley mounted thereon for rotation therewith, a first cable member wrapped around said dual cable drive pulley in a first direction and extending therefrom towards said second end of said first support means, thence around said first idler pulley, thence around said third idler pulley, thence around said fifth idler pulley, thence upwardly for fixed connection to said third support means adjacent the upper end thereof, a second cable member wrapped around said dual cable drive pulley in a second direction opposite the said first direction and extending therefrom towards said first carriage, thence around said second idler pulley, thence around said fourth idler pulley, thence around said sixth idler pulley, thence downwardly for fixed connection to said third support means adjacent the lower end thereof, means mounted on said third support means adjacent the lower end thereof for manipulation of a workpiece, and control means for controlling the operation of said drive motor means, said first brake means, said second brake means and said third brake means. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said dual cable drive pulley is longitudinally slidably mounted on said drive shaft. 3. The robot of claim 1 wherein said first brake means comprises a traverse brake, said second brake means comprises a horizontal brake, and said third brake means comprises a vertical brake. 