A method and apparatus for automatically operating the controls of a vehicle and, more specifically, a gearshift lever pattern in a manual transmission to determine an envelope of movement of the gearshift lever, is provided. X and Y motors can be operatively attached to a manual gearshift lever with appropriate encoders to determine positions. A computer circuit controls an automatic learning cycle of movement of the gearshift pattern, while appropriately storing the spatial positions of the gearshift lever, to thereby enable an automatic driving of the gearshift during an automatic operation of the vehicle in a controlled situation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automatically operating transmission gear and clutch shifting controls of a vehicle, comprising: drive means for automatically activating operator controls of the transmission gear and clutch, including a manual gearshift lever; computer means for controlling the drive means during an initial determination of the operative displacement of the gearshift lever, including means for repetitively moving the gearshift lever to determine an operative displacement both along a path of movement which causes a shifting of gears and traverse to the path of movement for the shifting of gears, first means for adjusting the position of the gearshift lever relative to a maximum traverse movement by a predetermined amount, and means for storing the operative displacement values, including the adjusted position values, to enable an automatic gear shifting of a manual transmission. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein the means for automatically activating includes a first motor for driving the gearshift lever in an X direction, a second motor for driving the gearshift lever in a Y direction, perpendicular to the X direction, and sensors for monitoring the position of the first and second motors. 3. The invention of claim 2, further including second means for adjusting the position of the gearshift lever relative to the maximum movement along the path of movement by a predetermined amount. 4. The invention of claim 2, further including means for varying the speed of the first motor based on movement of the second motor. 5. A method of determining the automatic operation of transmission gear controls of a vehicle having means for automatically activating operator controls of the transmission gears, including a manual gearshift lever having a shift pattern that can be represented in an X-Y coordinate system, comprising the steps of: repetitively moving the gearshift lever to determine an operative displacement of the gearshift lever in the shift pattern, both in a movement along the shift pattern and traverse to the shift pattern; adjusting the maximum limits of movement along the shift pattern and traverse to the shift pattern by a predetermined amount, and memorizing the adjusted limits to define X, Y coordinates in the shift pattern. 6. The method of claim 5, further including the step of varying the relative speed of movement in the X direction to a lesser value when movement starts in the Y direction. 7. An apparatus for automatically operating operator transmission gear controls of a vehicle to determine a gearshift lever position, comprising: drive means for automatically activating operator controls of the transmission gears, including a manual gearshift lever; computer means for controlling the drive means during an initial determination of the operative displacement of the gearshift lever, both along a path of movement which causes a shifting of gears and traverse to the path of movement for the shifting of gears, and means for storing spatial positions of the gearshift lever at predetermined positions along the gearshift lever movement, in order to enable a subsequent automatic gearshift lever movement. 8. The invention of claim 7, further including means for determining when a limit of travel along an XY-axis coordinate system occurs for the gearshift lever to enable the storage of a spatial position. 9. The invention of claim 8, further including means for adjusting the position of the gearshift lever relative to a maximum limit of travel by a predetermined amount. 10. The invention of claim 8, wherein the drive means includes a first motor for driving the gearshift lever in a Y-axis and a first sensor determining a Y position, and a second motor for driving the gearshift lever in an X-axis and a second sensor for determining an X position. 11. The invention of claim 10, further including means for varying the speed of the first motor based on movement of the second motor. 12. The invention of claim 11, wherein the means for varying changes the relative speed of movement in the X direction to a lesser value when movement starts in the Y direction. 13. A transmission gear lever control system for automatically operating operator transmission gear controls of a vehicle, comprising: drive means for automatically activating operator controls of the transmission gears, including a manual gearshift lever; computer means for controlling the drive means during an initial determination of the operative displacement of the gearshift lever, both along a path of movement which causes a shifting of gears and traverse to the path of movement for the shifting of gears, including, first means for adjusting the position of the gearshift lever relative to a maximum traverse movement by a predetermined amount, to provide an operative displacement value, second means for adjusting the position of the gearshift lever relative to the maximum movement along the path of movement by a predetermined amount, to provide an operative displacement value, and means for storing the operative displacement values to enable an automatic gear shifting of a manual transmission. 14. The invention of claim 13, further including means for adjusting the position of the gearshift lever relative to a maximum limit of travel by a predetermined amount. 15. The invention of claim 13, wherein the drive means includes a first motor for driving the gearshift lever in a Y-axis and a first sensor determining a Y position, and a second motor for driving the gearshift lever in an X-axis and a second sensor for determining an X position. 16. The invention of claim 15, further including means for varying the speed of the first motor based on movement of the second motor. 17. The invention of claim 16, wherein the means for varying changes the relative speed of movement in the X direction to a lesser value when movement starts in the Y direction. 