A legged mobile robot control system for enabling the mobile robot, more particularly a biped walking robot to walk stably even over terrain with unexpected irregularities. The robot's motion is approximated by a mathematical model and a mathematical control is conducted, while controlling the robot's attitude on the basis of a walking pattern established in advance, without need to use a high-speed on board computer for non-linearlity compensation. In another embodiment made up of a more simple arrangement, when the foot angle deviates from that on flat terrain owing to the foot stepping on a bump, the foot angle is estimated and joints are driven such that the robot's center of gravity is restored in a predetermined target trajectory. In still another embodiment, the robot body's inclination angle and/or angular velocity is determined and the hip joints connecting the body with two legs are driven to restore a predetermined stable attitude.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling locomotion of a biped walking robot having a body and two articulated legs each connected to the body through a hip joint and each having at least an ankle joint, comprising: servo motor means provided at individual joints first means for establishing a target attitude of the robot in terms of angles with respect to the direction of gravity assuming that the robot walks on a flat terrain; second means for determining at least a target angle of each joint from the established attitude; third means for detecting at least an actual angle of each joint; fourth means for determining a basic control amount for each joint in response to a deviation at least between the target angle and the detected actual angle of each joint; fifth means for estimating an attitude shift from the established attitude as angles with respect to the direction of gravity; sixth means for determining a control correction amount indicative of a manipulated variable such that the attitude shift decreases; and control means for summing the basic control amount and the control correction amount to provide the sum to the servo motor means. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount on the basis of at least one of an inclination angle and angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount on the basis of at least one of an inclination angle and angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity and the deviation at least between the target angle and the detected angle of each joint. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount by a state equation using the attitude shift as a state variable. 5. A system according to claim 4, wherein said sixth means changes a state feedback gain of the state equation in response to the attitude. 6. A system according to claim 4, wherein said sixth means changes a state feedback gain of the state equation in response to the frequency characteristics of a feedback signal of the state equation. 7. A system according to claim 6, wherein said sixth means changes a state feedback gain of the state equation in such a manner that the gain at a frequency range above a predetermined frequency in less than that below the predetermined frequency. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein said sixth means changes the predetermined frequency in response to the robot's payload. 9. A system according to claim 1, wherein the joints are assigned priority in the order of the ankle joint of a supporting leg which supports the robot weight, the hip joint of the supporting leg, the ankle joint of a free leg which is lifted from the ground, and said control means sums the basic control amount and the control correction amount at least partially following the order. 10. A system according to claim 1, further including: seventh means provided in the proximity of the ankle joint to detect an external force acting on a leg lifted off of the ground. 11. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount in response to the detected external force. 12. A system for controlling locomotion of a biped walking robot having a body and two articulated legs each connected to the body through a hip joint and each having an ankle joint and a knee joint, comprising: servo motor means provided at the individual joints; first means for establishing a target attitude of the robot in terms of angles with respect to the direction of gravity assuming that the robot walks on a flat terrain; second means for determining at least a target angle of each joint from the established attitude; third means for detecting at least an actual angle of each joint; fourth means for determining a basic control amount for each joint in response to a deviation at least between the target angle and the detected actual angle of each joint; fifth means for estimating an attitude shift from the establish attitude as angles with respect to the direction of gravity; sixth means for determining a control correction amount indicative of a manipulated variable such that the attitude shift decreases; and control means for summing the basic control amount and the control correction amount to provide the sum to the servo motor means. 13. A system according to claim 12, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount on the basis of at least one of an inclination angle and angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity. 14. A system according to claim 12, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount on the basis of at least one of an inclination angle and angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity and the deviation at least between the target angle and the detected actual angle of each joint. 15. A system according to claim 12, wherein the joints are assigned priority in the order of the ankle joint of a supporting leg which supports the robot weight, the knee joint of the supporting leg, the hip joint of the supporting leg, the knee joint and the ankle joint of a free leg which is lifted from ground, and said control means sums the basic control amount and the control correction amount at least partially following the order. 16. A system according to claim 12, wherein said sixth means determines the control correction amount by a state equation using the attitude shift as a state variable. 17. A system according to claim 16, wherein said sixth means changes a state feedback gain of the state equation in response to the attitude. 18. A system according to claim 16, wherein said sixth means changes a state feedback gain of the state equation in response to the frequency characteristics of a feedback signal of the state equation. 19. A system according to claim 18, wherein said sixth means changes a state feedback gain of the state equation in such a manner that the gain at a frequency range above a predetermined frequency is less than that below the predetermined frequency. 20. A system according to claim 19, wherein said sixth means changes the predetermined frequency in response to the robot's payload. 21. A system according to claim 12, further including: seventh means provided in the proximity of the ankle joint for detecting external force acting on a leg lifted from the ground. 22. A system according to claim 21, wherein: said sixth means determines the control correction amount in response to the detected external force. 23. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged walking robot having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body through a first joint and each having a second joint adjacent to its distal end and a third joint provided between the first and the second joints, including: drive means provided at the individual joints; first means for deeming the individual legs as links to approximate the robot's motion by a mathematical model; second means for determining an absolute angle of the individual links with respect to the direction of gravity; third means for expressing the robot' motion as an equation of motion based on the mathematical model using parameters including the determined absolute angle and for obtaining its solution; and fourth means for determining a control value to be provided to the drive means in response to the solution; wherein the improvement comprises: said second means determines the absolute angle from a second angle formed by a ray connecting the first and second joints with respect to the direction of gravity. 24. A system according to claim 23, wherein said second means determines the absolute angle from the second angle when the second angle is less than a predetermined angle. 25. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged walking robot having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body, comprising: drive means provided at individual joints of the robot; control means for determining a control value of the individual drive means; first means for detecting an absolute angle and/or angular velocity of a robot's portion landed on the ground with respect to the direction of gravity; second means for establishing a target position of a predetermined region of the robot; and third means for estimating a current position of the robot's predetermined region; wherein: said control means correcting the control value for at least one of the individual drive means such that the estimated current position of the robot's predetermined region coincides with the target position thereof. 26. A system according to claim 25, wherein the robot's predetermined region is the robot's center of gravity. 27. A system according to claim 25, further including: fourth means for detecting an absolute angle and/or angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity; and said control means corrects the control value of the drive means for the joint which is nearest to the robot's portion landed on the ground. 28. A system for controlling locomotion of a biped walking robot having a body and two legs each connected to the body through a hip joint and each having at least an ankle joint and a foot portion below the ankle joint, comprising: first means for preestablishing a walking data at least including a trajectory of the robot's center of gravity; second means for determining target angles of the individual joints inverse kinematically from the preestablished walking data; servo motor means provided at the individual joints; control means for determining a control value of the individual servo motor means such that the joint angles follow the target angles; third means for detecting an absolute angle and/or angular velocity of the foot portion with respect to the direction of gravity; and fourth means for estimating a current position of the robot's center of gravity; wherein: said control means correcting at least one of the control values for the individual servo motor means such that the estimated current position of the center of gravity follows the preestablished trajectory of the center of gravity. 29. A system according to claim 28, wherein said control means corrects the control value of the servo motor means provided at the ankle joint. 30. A system according to claim 28, further including: fifth means for detecting an absolute angle and/or angular velocity of the body with respect the direction of gravity; and said control means corrects at least one of the control values of the servo motor means in response to the detected absolute angle and/or angular velocity. 31. A system for controlling locomotion of a biped walking robot having a body and two articulated legs each connected to the body through a hip drive joint and each having at an ankle joint, comprising: servo motor means provided at the joints; first means for establishing a target angle of each joint; second means for detecting an actual angle of each joint; third means for obtaining a deviation between the established target angle and the detected actual angle to determine a first velocity command value of the serve motor means; fourth means for determining a differential of n-th order of an actual inclination angle of the body with respect to the direction of gravity; fifth means for calculating a deviation between the determined value and a reference value to determine a second velocity command value at least for the hip joint by multiplying the deviation by a gain made constant during a phase within which the robot weight is supported by both legs and a phase during which the robot weight is support by one of the two legs; and control (servo motor) means for summing the first and second velocity command values to provide the servo motor means of the hip and ankle joints. 32. A system according to claim 31, wherein said fifth means determines the second velocity command value for the ankle joint by multiplying the deviation by a second gain whose polarity is switched continuously between a phase within which the robot weight is supported by both legs and a phase within which the robot weight is supported by one of the two legs. 33. A system according to claim 32, wherein said fourth means determines an actual inclination angle and an actual inclination angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity and said fifth means determines the second velocity command value by calculating deviations between the determined values and reference values and by multiplying the deviations by the gain. 34. A system according to claim 31, wherein said fifth means determines the second velocity command value such that the robot restores a preestablished attitude. 35. A system according to claim 31, wherein said fourth means determines an actual inclination angle and an actual inclination angular velocity of the body with respect to the direction of gravity and said fifth means determines the second velocity command value by calculating deviations between the deviations by the gain. 