A high-energy radiation survey system capable of imaging and determining the distances of, sources of incident radiation and of determining the energy of such radiation, incorporating a shaped radiation detector shield and detector configured therein for low-noise collimation of the radiation for directional mapping. The system is capable of being mounted on a remotely controllable vehicle and of being operated from an operator's station remote from radiation hazards. The system can be used to generate high resolution radiation dose maps superimposed on a real-time video image of a room or other areas in nuclear power plants and other facilities using radioactive material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiation detection and mapping system, comprising: means for detecting radiation from sources of radiation within a restricted solid angle; means for shielding said means for detecting radiation so that incident radiation is substantially uniformly attenuated over all directions other than the restricted solid angle, said means for shielding having a substantially uniform thickness when measured from points along a central axis of symmetry of said means for detecting radiation; means for determining the distance between the means for detecting radiation and the sources of radiation; means for visually imaging the sources of radiation and their environment; and means for moving the detecting means, distance determining means and imaging means through a range of altitudinal and azimuthal angles. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a means for remotely moving said system over a range of locations. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a means for detecting ambient radiation over a substantially unrestricted solid angle. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for detecting radiation includes means for varying the size of said restricted solid angle. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for indicating the approximate center of the restricted solid angle of the detection means. 6. A radiation detection system comprising: means for detecting radiation from a restricted solid angle; and means for shielding said detecting means so that incident radiation is substantially uniformly attenuated over all directions other than the restricted solid angle, said means for shielding having a substantially uniform thickness when measured from points along a central axis of symmetry of said means for detecting radiation. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the detecting means comprises a scintillator counter and a photomultiplier, said photomultiplier optically bonded to said scintillator counter. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the means for shielding provides substantially uniform attenuation of gamma radiation over all angles other than the restricted solid angle. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for detecting radiation includes means for varying the size of said restricted solid angle. 