The invention comprises a flexible parts feeding system which can feed a large number of different types of parts to a manipulator. The system comprises a vibrating platform, a conveyor belt, a series of guides to assist in positioning and orienting parts, a vision based system for determining the orientation of a part in the staging area, and computer programming for instructing the manipulator to grasp the part if it is properly oriented in the staging area. The vibratory amplitude and speed, the speed of the conveyor belts, the positioning of the guides and the part signature of the vision system are all programmable responsive to the part which is to be fed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vision-based parts feeding apparatus for feeding parts to a manipulator, said apparatus comprising: means for delivering a plurality of parts of a first part type to a vibratory platform, said vibratory platform constructed and arranged to randomly disperse said parts by means of vibration, conveyor means adjacent said platform for transporting said parts along a path towards a staging area as said parts are dispersed from said platform, said transporting occurring at a substantially higher speed than said dispersing on said vibratory platform, guide means disposed along said path of said conveyor means for assisting in separating said parts and orienting said parts, including parts carried on said conveyor means in a single layer, into an orientation suitable for grasping by said manipulator, said staging area positioned subsequent to said guide means and comprising means for obtaining image information about a part in the staging area, said part being separated by the feeding apparatus from other parts being fed, processing means coupled to said image obtaining means for processing said image information to determine the orientation or identification of said part, and means for acting on said part responsive to the information obtained concerning the orientation or identification of said part. 2. A vision-based parts feeding system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means for acting comprises means for instructing said manipulator to grasp said part if said part is in an orientation suitable for grasping by said manipulator, and means for returning said part to said means for delivering if said part is not in an orientation suitable for grasping by said manipulator. 3. A vision-based parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said image obtaining means comprises means for simultaneously obtaining a plurality of views of said part. 4. A vision-based parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said staging area further comprises a mirror disposed relative to said image obtaining means and said conveyor belt such that said image obtaining means simultaneously receives a first view of said part in a first portion of said image and a second view of said part through said mirror in a second portion of said image. 5. A vision-based parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said conveying means comprises a translucent conveyor belt and said apparatus further comprises light source means disposed under said conveyor belt in said staging area so as to back light said parts in said staging area relative to said image obtaining means. 