A robot transport platform adapted for locomotion, having a base with three wheels on each side. Of the three wheels on each side, the wheels near the fore end and the aft end are omnidirectional wheels; the intermediate wheel in between the omnidirectional wheels is a conventional wheel. The omnidirectional wheels have staggered rows of spherical rollers rotatably mounted to the circumference of the wheel's hub. More precisely, the rollers are mounted to annular shafts that circumscribe the circumference of the hub, and are supported in an overlying position over the hub by radially extending spokes. Anti-rattle washers are provided in between adjacent rollers. Torque is provided by two electric motors independently operating the wheels on each side. Torque is transferred to the wheels via a gear box, a chain, and cogged drive belts. The robot transport platform is controlled by radio and accordingly has a radio receiver mounted to the base. Servo controllers are used to control the motors and gear box. Batteries are supplied to power the electrical hardware. In alternative embodiments, the shape of the rollers can be cylindrical, diamond shaped, or an ovoid. In another alternative embodiment, the transport platform can be powered by an internal combustion gasoline or diesel engine.
Claims We claim: 1. A robot transport platform adapted for translation and pivotal motion over a running surface, comprising: a base having oppositely disposed sides, and a fore end and an aft end; a first pair of wheels disposed on opposite sides of the base toward the fore end of the base, each wheel having a cylindrical hub, a plurality of annular shafts each circumscribing the hub, spokes extending radially from the cylindrical hub to each annular shaft, spherical rollers rotatably mounted to each annular shaft, wherein the rollers are staggered from the rollers mounted on adjacent annular shafts; a second pair of wheels disposed on opposite sides of the base toward the aft end of the base; a pair of intermediate wheels disposed on opposite sides of the base in an intermediate position in between the first pair and second pair of wheels, wherein on each side of the base the first and second wheels and the intermediate wheel are mounted at a substantially constant height defined from a line extending parallel to the running surface; a motor disposed on the base; a gearbox for selectively engaging the intermediate wheels and first and second wheels, wherein the gearbox is driven by the motor; means for controlling the motor and gearbox including a pulse width modulation converter mounted to the base, a servo amplifier electrically connected to the pulse width modulation converter, power relays adapted to engage the gearbox and motor, means for receiving a signal, electrically connected to the pulse width modulation converter; and a power cell connected to the means for controlling. 2. A robot transport platform adapted for locomotion, comprising: a base having oppositely disposed sides, and a fore end and an aft end; a first pair of first and second wheels disposed on opposite sides of the base toward the fore and aft ends of the base respectively, wherein each wheel includes a cylindrical shape hub, a plurality of annular shafts disposed concentricity with the hub and arranged in an overlying position relative to the hub, radially extending spokes joining the annular shafts to the hub, wherein rollers are rotatably mounted to each annular shaft in a staggered relationship; a pair of intermediate wheels disposed on opposite sides of the base in between the first pair and second pair of wheels; drive means for selectively driving the wheels; and means for controlling the drive means. 3. A transport platform adapted for locomotion of a load comprising: means for supporting the load having opposite sides; at least two wheels disposed on each side of the means for supporting, each wheel having a cylindrical hub including a circumference, a plurality of annular shafts disposed concentrically with the hub and arranged in an overlying position relative to the hub, radially extending spokes joining the annular shafts to the hub, wherein rollers are rotatably mounted to each annular shaft in a staggered relationship; propulsion means for propelling the means for supporting, disposed on opposite sides in an intermediate position in between the wheels on each side of the means for supporting; and means for controlling the propulsion means. 