A system and a process for identifying three-dimensional coordinates and orientation to a robot. A pair of CCD video cameras are used to measure the position of a laser or other light source spot on the surface of a workpiece. The laser and cameras need not be fixed to each other, and the laser may be handheld. In operation, the light source provides a small spot of light centered on the location to be indicated to the robot. The spot of light is then located in the field of view of each of the cameras. Using the concept of stereo triangulation, the three-dimensional coordinates of the spot are calculated by a microcomputer. These coordinates are then transformed into a form which is recognizable by the robot. The spot of light from the object can also be generated by an emitter (such as an LED or Laser diode) which is fixed on the workpiece and stimulated by an energy source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination with a stereo optical correlation system which uses a computer, and two cameras to locate an object in three dimensions, a process for identifying three-dimensional coordinates and orientation, said process comprising the steps of: selectively illuminating at least one three-dimensional reference point on said object with a free-moving light source, said illuminating step identifying the three-dimensional reference point for orientation in three-dimensions, wherein said object is a fixed workpiece, and wherein said illuminating step is performed with a hand-held laser pen which reflects a beam of light off of said fixed workpiece to indicate the three-dimensional reference point on said workpiece; detecting said three-dimensional reference point with said two cameras to provide thereby stereo optical data signals; and calculating the three-dimensional coordinates of the three-dimensional reference point from the stereo optical data signals with the computer. 2. A process, as defined in claim 1, wherein said laser pen illuminates three separate three-dimensional reference points on said workpiece. 3. A process, as defined in claim 1, wherein said laser pen illuminates three separate three-dimensional reference points on said workpiece, which said computer uses to calculate an orientation vector. 4. A stereo optical correlation system comprising: a hand-held free-moving light source which illuminates at least one three-dimensional reference point on an object; a pair of remotely located cameras that detect said three-dimensional reference point and output stereo optical data signals thereby; and a computer which calculates three-dimensional coordinates from said stereo optical data signals. 5. A stereo optical correlation system, as defined in claim 4, wherein said hand-held free-moving source comprises a laser pen which reflects a beam of light off of a workpiece to indicate the three-dimensional reference point. 6. A stereo optical correlation system, as defined in claim 5, wherein said laser pen illuminates three separate three-dimensional reference points on said workpiece. 7. A stereo optical correlation system, as defined in claim 4, wherein said free-moving light source comprises an energy source which stimulates an emitter wherein said emitter is on a workpiece, and wherein said emitter is aimed toward said cameras to indicate the three-dimensional reference point on the workpiece. 8. A stereo optical correlation system, as defined in claim 6, wherein said laser pen illuminates three separate emitters to indicate three separate three-dimensional reference points on said workpiece, which said computer uses to calculate an orientation vector. 9. A stereo optical correlation process, for locating a workpiece, said process comprising the steps of: fixing a set of emitters on said workpiece; selectively activating emitters of interest on said workpiece using a hand-held light source; detecting said emitters of interest with a stereo optical correlation system which includes two cameras to locate said emitter, said two cameras providing stereo optical data signals which provide orientation in three dimensions; and calculating three-dimensional coordinates for said workpiece from the stereo optical data signals. 10. A stereo optical correlation process, as defined in claim 9 wherein each of said emitters of interest comprises a light emitting diode which is stimulated to emit when activated by said hand-held light source. 