A hybrid position and force control system for a robotic manipulator. A displacement error signal of an end effector such as a robotic hand is multiplied by a pseudo-inverse of a matrix product of a selection matrix and a Jacobian matrix to provide a joint displacement error signal in the coordinates of the various joints of the manipulator. The system may be tuned for obstacle avoidance and the like by means of a joint tuning signal having displacement and force components each produced by multiplying a user-provided tuning signal by a matrix difference between an identity matrix and a matrix product of a pseudo-inverse of the Jacobian mattrix and the Jacobian matrix.
Claims We claim: 1. A hybrid control system comprising: means for providing an end effector displacement error signal indicative of any difference between an actual displacement of an end effector of a robotic manipulator and a desired displacement thereof; means for calculating a selected joint displacement error signal by multiplying the end effector displacement error signal by a pseudo-inverse of a matrix product of a selection matrix and a Jacobian matrix; means for providing an end effector force error signal indicative of any difference between an actual force exerted by the end effector and a desired force to be exerted thereby; means for calculating a selected joint force error signal from the end effector force error signal; and control signal means responsive to the joint displacement error signal and the joint force error signal to provide a control signal for causing the end effector to move in accordance with the desired displacement and to exert the desired force. 2. A control system as in claim 1 and further comprising means for providing a joint tuning signal, the control signal means being responsive to the joint tuning signal to provide the control signal. 3. A hybrid control system comprising: means for providing an end effector displacement error signal indicative of any difference between an actual displacement of an end effector of a robotic manipulator and a desired displacement thereof; means for calculating a selected joint displacement error signal from the end effector displacement error signal; means for providing an end effector force error signal indicative of any difference between an actual force exerted by the end effector and a desired force to be exerted thereby; means for calculating a selected joint force error signal from the end effector force error signal; means for providing a joint tuning signal, the means for providing the joint tuning signal comprising means for calculating a displacement component of the tuning signal by multiplying an input displacement tuning signal by a matrix difference between an identity matrix and a matrix product of a pseudo-inverse of a Jacobian matrix and the Jacobian matrix; and control signal means responsive to the joint displacement error signal, the joint force error signal and the tuning signal to provide a control signal for causing the end effector to move in accordance with the desired displacement and to exert the desired force. 4. A control system as in claim 3 wherein the means for providing the joint tuning signal comprises means for calculating a force component of the tuning signal by multiplying an input force tuning signal by a matrix difference between an identity matrix and a matrix product of a pseudo-inverse of the Jacobian matrix and the Jacobian matrix. 5. A control system as in claim 4 wherein the means for calculating the joint displacement error signal comprises means for multiplying the end effector displacement error signal by a pseudo-inverse of a matrix product of a selection matrix and the Jacobian matrix. 6. A control system as in claim 3 wherein the means for calculating the joint displacement error signal comprises means for multiplying the end effector displacement error signal by a pseudo-inverse of a matrix product of a selection matrix and the Jacobian matrix. 7. A hybrid control system comprising: means for providing an end effector displacement error signal indicative of any difference between an actual displacement of an end effector of a robotic manipulator and a desired displacement thereof; means for calculating a selected joint displacement error signal from the end effector displacement error signal; means for providing an end effector force error signal indicative of any difference between an actual force exerted by the end effector and a desired force to be exerted thereby; means for calculating a selected joint force error signal from the end effector force error signal; means for providing a joint tuning signal, the means for providing the joint tuning signal comprising means for calculating a force component of the tuning signal by multiplying an input force tuning signal by a matrix difference between an identity matrix and a matrix product of a pseudo-inverse of the Jacobian matrix and the Jacobian matrix; and control signal means responsive to the joint displacement error signal, the joint force error signal and the tuning signal to provide a control signal for causing the end effector to move in accordance with the desired displacement and to exert the desired force. 8. A control system as in claim 7 wherein the means for calculating the joint displacement error signal comprises means for multiplying the end effector displacement error signal by a pseudo-inverse of a matrix product of a selection matrix and the Jacobian matrix. 