A tape automated bonding feeder apparatus employs a vertical carrier extraction unit to successively supply electronic circuit components to an output station from which a component is seized for placement and attachment to a circuit board. The feeder apparatus, which may be mounted on a rollable cart, includes a generally rectilinear housing on a top plate of which one or more magazines are mounted. A magazine contains a stack of circuit component carriers. The bottom of the magazine has a carrier extraction unit which controllably allows an individual component carrier at the bottom of the stack to drop away onto an underlying carrier shuttle. The carrier shuttle is supported for movement between the magazine and a lead forming unit. The lead forming unit detaches a component from the carrier and forms the leads of the excised component for mounting the component to a circuit board. A processed component transport unit is coupled to an anvil of the lead forming unit and transports a processed component to the output station.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A device for transporting a workpiece comprising: a gripper mechanism having first and second horizontally extending gripper fingers, and a gripper finger displacement unit which is operative to controllably horizontally translate said gripper fingers toward and away from each other, each horizontally extending gripper finger having a horizontally extending support portion upon which a workpiece is supportable, and an overhang portion that partially overlaps said support portion, so as to allow a workpiece vertically presented toward said horizontally extending gripper fingers, for a first horizontal separation therebetween, to pass by the overhang portions of said horizontally extending gripper fingers and come to rest upon and be supported by said support portions thereof and, for a second horizontal separation between said gripper fingers, wider than said first horizontal separation, to allow said workpiece that has been placed upon said support portions of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, to be translated past said support portions thereof; a shuttle base which is controllably translated along a shuttle transport path from a first station, at which said workpiece is presented to said gripper mechanism, to a second station; and a gripper mechanism displacement unit which supports and vertically translates said gripper mechanism with respect to said shuttle base. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said gripper finger displacement unit is operative to controllably horizontally translate said gripper fingers to a third horizontal separation therebetween, less than said first horizontal separation, so that said workpiece, resting upon said support portions of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, is captured between the overhang portions and the support portions of said gripper fingers. 3. The device according to claim 2, wherein said gripper mechanism displacement unit comprises an arrangement of translation column members supported by said shuttle base and supporting said gripper mechanism for vertical translational movement relative to said shuttle base. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein said gripper mechanism includes a gripper finger support which retains said gripper fingers in spaced-apart relationship such that said gripper fingers are urged together to said third horizontal separation therebetween. 5. The device according to claim 4, wherein said gripper finger support comprises a gripper finger retention base and first and second finger retention elements extending from said gripper finger retention base in spaced-apart relationship, and shaft members supported by said finger retention elements and passing through said gripper fingers, so that said gripper fingers are horizontally translationally supported by said shaft elements. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein said gripper mechanism further includes a pneumatic shaft element arranged parallel to said shaft members and being pneumatically coupled to each of said gripper fingers to controllably apply a pneumatic spreading force against a normal together-urging retention of said gripper fingers by said gripper finger support. 7. The device according to claim 4, wherein said gripper fingers are configured to engage a mechanical spreading element separate from said device, such that engagement with said mechanical spreading element will increase the separation between said gripper fingers from said third separation to said first separation against a normal together-urging retention of said gripper fingers by said gripper finger support. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein said gripper mechanism further includes an opto-electronic sensor which is operative to sense the presence of a workpiece on said first and second gripper fingers. 9. The device according to claim 1, further including a discarded workpiece engagement unit mounted on said shuttle base and being operative to controllably engage a discarded workpiece that has been translated past said support portions of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, for said second horizontal separation between said gripper fingers, and has come to rest upon a support member external to said shuttle. 10. A shuttle for transporting an electronic circuit chip carrier comprising: an electronic circuit chip carrier gripper mechanism having first and second horizontally extending and horizontally translatable gripper fingers, and a gripper finger displacement unit which is operative to controllably horizontally translate said gripper fingers toward and away from each other, each horizontally extending gripper finger having a horizontally extending support ledge upon which said carrier is supportable, and an overhang portion that partially overlaps said support portion, so as to allow said carrier that has been vertically presented to said horizontally extending gripper fingers, for a first horizontal separation therebetween, to pass by the overhang portions of said horizontally extending gripper fingers and come to rest upon and be supported by said ledges thereof and, for a second horizontal separation between said gripper fingers, wider than said first horizontal separation therebetween, to allow said carrier that is resting upon said ledges of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, to be vertically translated past said ledges and be discarded; a shuttle base which is controllably translated along a shuttle transport path from a first station, at which said carrier is presented to said gripper mechanism, to a second station, at which a chip excising unit excises an electronic chip from said carrier; and a gripper mechanism displacement unit which supports and vertically translates said gripper mechanism with respect to said shuttle base. 11. The device according to claim 10, wherein said gripper finger displacement unit is operative to controllably horizontally urge said gripper fingers to a third horizontal separation therebetween, less than said first horizontal separation, so that said carrier, resting upon said ledges of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, is captured between the overhang portions and the ledges of said gripper fingers. 12. The device according to claim 11, wherein said gripper mechanism displacement unit comprises an arrangement of translation column members supported by said shuttle base and supporting said gripper mechanism for vertical translational movement relative to said shuttle base. 13. The device according to claim 12, wherein said gripper mechanism includes a mechanically biasing gripper finger support which biases said gripper fingers in spaced-apart relationship such that said gripper fingers are urged together toward said third horizontal separation therebetween. 14. The device according to claim 13, wherein said gripper finger support comprises a gripper finger retention base and first and second finger retention elements extending from said gripper finger retention base in spaced-apart relationship, and shaft members supported by said finger retention elements and passing through said gripper fingers, so that said gripper fingers are horizontally translationally supported by said shaft elements. 15. The device according to claim 14, wherein said gripper mechanism further includes a pneumatic shaft element arranged parallel to said shaft members and being pneumatically coupled to each of said gripper fingers to controllably apply a pneumatic spreading force against a normal together-urging retention of said gripper fingers by said gripper finger support. 16. The device according to claim 14, wherein said gripper fingers are configured to engage a mechanical spreading element separate from said device, such that engagement with said mechanical spreading element will increase the separation between said gripper fingers from said third separation to said first separation against a normal biased together-urging retention of said gripper fingers by said gripper finger support. 17. The device according to claim 10, wherein said gripper mechanism further includes an opto-electronic sensor which is operative to sense the presence of a carrier on said first and second gripper fingers. 18. The device according to claim 10, further including a discarded carrier engagement unit mounted on said shuttle base and being operative to controllably engage a discarded carrier that has been translated past said ledges of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, for said second horizontal separation between said gripper fingers, and has come to rest upon a support member external to said shuttle. 19. The device according to claim 18, wherein said discarded carrier engagement unit comprises a cylinder vertically mounted on said shuttle base and having an output shaft to which a push plate is affixed, said cylinder being operating so that said output shaft may be vertically displaced and thereby cause said push plate to engage said discarded carrier that is supported by said support member external to said shuttle. 20. The device according to claim 16, wherein respective surfaces of said gripper fingers are chamfered to engage a wedge element separate from said device, such that engagement of said respective surfaces of said gripper fingers with said wedge element will increase the separation between said gripper fingers from said third separation to said first separation. 21. A method of operating a transport shuttle for transporting an electronic circuit chip carrier, said transport shuttle having an electronic circuit chip carrier gripper mechanism that includes first and second horizontally extending and horizontally translatable gripper fingers, each horizontally extending gripper finger having a horizontally extending support ledge upon which said carrier is supportable, and an overhang portion that partially overlaps said support portion, a shuttle base which is controllably translated along a shuttle transport path from a first station, at which said carrier is presented to said gripper mechanism, to a second station, at which a chip excising unit excises an electronic chip from said carrier, and a gripper mechanism displacement unit which supports and is operative to controllably vertically translate said gripper mechanism with respect to said shuttle base, said method comprising the steps of: (a) horizontally positioning said gripper fingers at a first separation therebetween so as to cause said carrier that is vertically presented to said gripper fingers at said first station to pass by said overhang portions thereof and come to rest upon and be supported by said ledges; (b) horizontally translating said gripper fingers from said first separation to a second horizontal separation therebetween, less than said first horizontal separation, so that said overhang portions extend over edges of said carrier, and said carrier, resting upon said ledges of said horizontally extending gripper fingers, is thereby captured between the overhang portions and the ledges of said gripper fingers; (c) transporting said shuttle base along said shuttle transport path from said first station to said second station; (d) at said second station, causing said gripper mechanism displacement unit to vertically translate said gripper mechanism with respect to said shuttle base and bring said carrier into engagement with said chip excising unit which excises said electronic chip from said carrier; (e) transporting said shuttle base along said shuttle transport path from said second station to said first station; and; (f) at said first station, horizontally translating said gripper fingers from said second separation to a third horizontal separation therebetween, wider than said first horizontal separation therebetween, so that said carrier from which said electronic chip has been excised is vertically translated past said ledges and discarded. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein said transport shuttle further includes a discarded carrier engagement unit mounted on said shuttle base, and wherein step (e) comprises, in the course of transporting said shuttle base along said shuttle transport path from said second station to said first station, causing said discarded carrier engagement unit to engage a previously discarded carrier that has come to rest upon a support member external to said shuttle in the vicinity of said first station. 