A detecting system and method of determining the position of a mobile point of interest in a m dimensional coordinate system having an ultrasonic transmitter mounted on the point of interest, and a plurality of stationary ultrasonic receivers, the number being at least m plus 2. The location of the receivers are determined optimally by using a linear matrix formulation. Alternatively, the location of the receivers can be determined during installation or self-calibration of the system. The system also includes receiver controlling means for processing the received signal to generate time of flight measurements which are used to eliminate the speed of sound as a variable and to compute the location of the point of interest. The controlling means also generates phase measurements when prompted by an outside source by comparing the transmitted signal with a 40kHz pulse sync to refine the accuracy of the location of the point of interest.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A position detecting system for determining the coordinates of a point of interest in a m-dimensional coordinate system, comprising: a) a transmitter associated with the point of interest for the transmission of a sound in the coordinate system; b) a plurality of receivers each having a known location, the number of receivers being at least m plus two, for receiving the sound transmission; c) analyzing means operably associated with the receivers to generate measurements relating to the distances between the transmitter and each receiver and using such measurements to eliminate the speed of sound as a necessary variable, and to identify the location of the point of interest. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the analyzing means includes a controlling means for generating time of flight measurements relating to the time between transmission of the sound and reception of the sound by the respective receivers indicative of the respective distances and computing means for processing the distance measurements to eliminate the speed of sound as a variable and computing the location of the point of interest. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the analyzing means includes a plurality of controlling means each operably connected to the transmitter and respective receivers to generate the distance measurements and computing means operably connected to each controlling means for combining the distance measurements to eliminate the speed of sound as a variable and to compute the location of the point of interest. 4. The system of claim 1 further including strobe means operably connected to the transmitter and analyzing means for supplying the transmitter with a strobe to initiate the transmission of the sound and provide the analyzing means with an indication of when the sound is transmitted. 5. The system of claim 3 further including strobe means operably connected to the transmitter and each controlling means for supplying the transmitter with a strobe to initiate the transmission of the sound and provide each controlling means with an indication of when the sound is transmitted. 6. The system of claim 2 wherein the controlling means includes amplifiers connected to each receiver for processing and amplifying a signal generated by the receivers. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the transmitted sound is a sinusoidal short duration signal generated by a strobe means. 8. The system of claim 2 wherein the analyzing means further includes phase detection means operably associated with the transmitter and receivers for measuring the relative phase displacement of the transmitted sound. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the time of flight measurements and the phase displacement measurements are combined to provide the distance measurements. 10. The system of claim 1 further including display means connected to the analyzing means for displaying the position of the point of interest. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the position of the point of interest is determined by a linear matrix formulation of a vector form. ##EQU7## wherein a measurement vector (t.sub.1, t.sub.2, ..., t.sub.n) represents the time of flight of the sound emitted by the transmitter and received by r.sub.n receivers; receiver location matrix (x.sub.1, y.sub.1, z.sub.1, ... x.sub.n, y.sub.n, z.sub.n) represents the coordinates of the receiver in threedimensions; (u, v, w) represents the coordinates of the transmitter in three-dimensions; vector p.sup.2 represents u.sup.2 +v.sup.2 +w.sup.2 which is a square of the coordinates of the transmitter; vector r.sub.i.sup.2 represents x.sub.i.sup.2 +y.sub.i.sup.2 +z.sub.i.sup.2 which is a square of the coordinates of the receiver; and t.sub.d represents a time delay inherent in the system so that the formulation is solved for the vectors (u, v, w) and p.sup.2 and s.sup.2. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the linear matrix formulation further includes comparing the solved for vectors to a sum of the coordinates of the transmitter as a check value. 13. A position detecting system for determining the coordinates of a point of interest in a m-dimensional coordinate system, comprising: a) a transmitter mounted to the point of interest for transmitting a sound in the coordinate system; b) a plurality of receivers, the number of receivers being at least m plus two for receiving the transmitted sound and producing a signal indicating the reception of the transmitted signal; c) strobe means operably connected to the transmitter for supplying the transmitter with a strobe to initiate the transmission of the sound; d) a plurality of controlling means equalling the number of receivers, the controlling means connected to the strobe means and respective receivers to process the signals and to generate measurements relating to a distance between the transmitter and each receiver; and e) computing means operably associated with each controlling means for using measurements of the distance between the transmitter and each receiver to eliminate speed of sound as a variable and compute a location of the point of interest. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein each controlling means generates time of flight measurements relating to the time between transmission of the sound and reception of the sound by the respective receivers indicative of the respective distances. 15. The system of claim 13 wherein each controlling means includes an amplifier connected to its respective receiver for processing and amplifying a signal generated by the receivers. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein each controlling means further includes phase detection means operably associated with the strobe and its respective receiver measuring the relative phase displacement of the transmitted sound. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the time of flight measurements and the phase displacement measurements are combined to provide the distance measurements. 18. The system of claim 13 wherein each controlling means includes automatic gain control means for providing consistent sound quality in the transmitted sound received by the receiver; peak detection means connected to automatic gain control means for detecting the peak of the amplified sound and determines a sound threshold level; subsequent peak attenuation means connected to the peak detection means and the automatic gain control means for receiving and attenuating the detected peak sound and for supplying the automatic gain control means with an attenuated detected peak sound; peak level means connected to the automatic gain control means and the peak detection means for maintaining the detected peak sound at a predetermined level and supplying the detected peak sound to the automatic gain control means; and reflection-rejection means for attenuating reflected sounds that may erroneously cause multiple computations from a single sound transmission. 19. A method for determining the coordinates of a point of interest in a m-dimensional coordinate system, comprising the steps of: a. positioning a transmitter on the point of interest; b. transmitting a sound pulse with the transmitter; c. providing a plurality of stationary receivers, the number of receivers being m plus 2 for receiving the transmitted sound; d. generating distance measurements from time of flight measurements relating to the time between transmission of the sound and reception of the sound by respective receivers; and e. computing the location of the point of interest eliminating speed of sound as a variable using the distance measurements. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising the steps of: a. defining initially the coordinates of a reference point of interest; b. transmitting the sound pulse with the transmitter; c. receiving the sound pulse with the receivers; d. computing the location of the reference point of interest; and e. calibrating using the defined coordinates and the computed location. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: a. measuring the relative phase displacements between the transmitter and each receiver; and b. combining the measurements of the phase displacements with respective measurements from the time of flight measurements to provide distance measurements between the transmitters and the receivers. 22. A method for determining the coordinates of a plurality of receivers in a m-dimensional coordinate system wherein the number of receivers being m plus 2, and using euation where M is the measurement vector, A is the receiver location matrix denote by vectors V.sub.1, V.sub.2, V.sub.3, V.sub.4 and V.sub.5 and .mu. is the unknown vector and projection on the column space of the matrix A, comprising the steps of: a. obtaining resultant vector dot product equations and variables from matrix A; b. defining values for two vectors; and c. inserting those values into nine equations and solving the nine equations numerically for the remaining three vectors. 23. A method for determining the coordinates of n receivers during installation and calibration of the system by: (a) placing the transmitter at k known locations; (b) performing a ranging operation for each location; and (c) using the following equation for each receiver location (x.sub.i, y.sub.i, z.sub.i) to determine each receivers coordinates: ##EQU8## wherein a measurement vector (t.sub.1, T.sub.2, ..., t.sub.k) represents a time of flight of the sound emitted by the transmitter and received by the r.sub.i receiver and t.sub.d represents a time delay inherent in the system; s represents the speed of sound; (u.sub.1, v.sub.1, w.sub.1, . . . u.sub.k, v.sub.k, w.sub.k) represents the coordinates of the transmitter in three-dimensions; vector p.sup.2 represents u.sup.2 +v.sup.2 +w.sup.2 which is a square of the coordinates of the transmitter, and vector r.sup.2 represents x.sup.2 +y.sup.2 +z.sup.2 which is a square of the coordinates of the receiver. 