A dual-purpose robotic picker apparatus for picking entire magazines of data storage cartridges as well as individual data storage cartridges in an automated data storage library. The multi-slot picker combines a detachable magazine and a "through-the-magazine" cartridge manipulator to function as a multi-gripper picker. A first magazine gripper acts to hold a multi-cartridge magazine. A second cartridge picker acts to move cartridges in and out of the magazine. An indexing mechanism moves the detachable magazine with respect to the cartridge gripper, permitting random access to the cartridges held within the magazine. The gripper mechanism can transport cartridges automatically within the library, either in magazines or as individual cartridges. The combination of multi-slot picking and bulk cartridge movement functions sharply increases library efficiency and data storage cartridge loading speed.
Claims We claim: 1. In an automated data storage library having a plurality of Data Storage Media cartridges each located in a storage bin and having one or more internal Peripheral Data Storage Devices for reading from and writing to said cartridges and having at least one dual-purpose robotic picker for transporting one or more said cartridges between said storage bins and said internal storage devices, a machine-implemented method for transporting said cartridges comprising the unordered steps of: (a) loading a first plurality of said cartridges into a detachable Data Storage Media Magazine; (b) grasping said detachable magazine; (c) moving said detachable magazine to a first destination location; (d) unloading at least one of said first plurality of cartridges from a position in said detachable magazine into a slot at said first destination location; (e) moving said detachable magazine to a second destination location; and (f) unloading at least one of said first plurality of cartridges into a slot at said second destination location. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said loading step (a) includes the unordered steps of: (a.1) loading at least one of said first plurality of said cartridges into said detachable magazine at a first origination location; (a.2) moving said detachable magazine to a second origination location; and (a.3) loading at least one of said first plurality of said cartridges into said detachable magazine at said second origination location. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said first plurality of said cartridges are loaded during said loading step (a) or unloaded during said unloading steps (d) and (f) in a sequence different from the sequence in which said cartridges are disposed in said detachable magazine. 4. An automated data storage library having a robotic picker, one or more drive bays each disposed for receiving at least one internal Peripheral Data Storage Device for reading a Data Storage Medium cartridge mounted thereon and a plurality of magazine bays each disposed for receiving one or more detachable data storage media magazines each having a plurality of cartridge storage slots each disposed to receive at least one said cartridge, said robotic picker comprising: first magazine gripping means for grasping a first said detachable magazine; cartridge gripping means coupled to said first magazine gripping means for grasping a first said cartridge within a selected said storage slot in said first detachable magazine; cartridge indexing means coupled to said first magazine gripping means for aligning said cartridge gripping means with said selected storage slot in said first detachable magazine; and location indexing means coupled to said cartridges gripping means for transferring said first cartridge between said first detachable magazine and another location. 5. The automated data storage library of claim 4 wherein said robotic picker further comprises: second magazine gripping means for grasping a second said detachable magazine; and magazine indexing means for exchanging the positions of said first detachable magazine and said second detachable magazine. 6. The automated data storage library of claim 5 wherein said first magazine gripping means and said second magazine gripping means are each adapted to grasp an ACL magazine. 7. The automated data storage library of claim 4 wherein said first magazine gripping means is adapted to grasp an Automatic Cartridge Loader (ACL) magazine. 8. The automated data storage library of claim 4 wherein said plurality of storage slots in said first detachable magazine are disposed in a rotationally symmetric configuration. 9. The automated data storage library of claim 4 wherein said plurality of storage slots in said first detachable magazine are disposed in a rectilinear configuration. 10. In an automated data storage library, a robotic picker for transporting one or more data storage medium cartridges from an origination location to a destination location, said picker comprising: first magazine gripping means for grasping a first detachable magazine, said first detachable magazine having a plurality of storage slots each disposed to receive at least one said cartridge; cartridge gripping means coupled to said first magazine gripping means for grasping a first said cartridge within a selected said storage slot in said first detachable magazine; cartridge indexing means coupled to said first magazine gripping means for aligning said cartridge gripping means with said selected storage slot in said first detachable magazine; and location indexing means coupled to said cartridge gripping means for transferring said first cartridge between said first detachable magazine and another location. 11. The robotic picker of claim 10 further comprising: second magazine gripping means for grasping a second said detachable magazine; and magazine indexing means for exchanging the positions of said first detachable magazine and said second detachable magazine. 12. The automated data storage library of claim 11 wherein said first magazine gripping means and said second magazine gripping means are each adapted to grasp an ACL magazine. 13. The automated data storage library of claim 10 wherein said first magazine gripping means is adapted to grasp an Automatic Cartridge Loader (ACL) magazine. 14. The robotic picker of claim 10 wherein said plurality of storage slots in said first detachable magazine are disposed in a rotationally symmetric configuration. 15. The automated data storage library of claim 10 wherein said plurality of storage slots in said first detachable magazine are disposed in a rectilinear configuration. 16. An automated data storage library having a robotic picker, one or more internal Peripheral Data Storage Devices for reading a Data Storage Medium cartridge mounted thereon and one or more detachable magazines each having a plurality of storage slots each disposed to receive at least one said cartridge, said robotic picker comprising: first magazine gripping means for grasping a first said detachable magazine; cartridge gripping means coupled to said first magazine gripping means for grasping a first said cartridge within a selected said storage slot in said first detachable magazine; cartridge indexing means coupled to said first magazine gripping means for aligning said cartridge gripping means with said selected storage slot in said first detachable magazine; and location indexing means coupled to said cartridge gripping means for transferring said first cartridge between said first detachable magazine and another location. 17. The automated data storage library of claim 16 wherein said robotic picker further comprises: second magazine gripping means for grasping a second said detachable magazine; and magazine indexing means for exchanging the positions of said first detachable magazine and said second detachable magazine, 18. The automated data storage library of claim 17 wherein said first magazine gripping means and said second magazine gripping means are each adapted to grasp an ACL magazine. 19. The automated data storage library of claim 16 wherein said first magazine gripping means is adapted to grasp an Automatic Cartridge Loader (ACL) magazine. 20. The automated data storage library of claim 16 wherein said plurality of storage slots in said first detachable magazine are disposed in a rotationally symmetric configuration. 21. The automated data storage library of claim 16 wherein said plurality of storage slots in said first detachable magazine are disposed in a rectilinear configuration. 