A system and method for verifying the positional integrity of a robotic arm are disclosed. The robotic arm includes a servo mechanism which causes movement of the arm. The servo mechanism has a position encoder which indicates the relative position of the robotic arm with respect to a fixed reference point. A flag is attached to the robotic arm. A sensor for detecting the flag is attached to a point which is fixed with respect to the motion of the robotic arm. The sensor is located at a point such that the flag will pass by the sensor during the normal course of travel of the robotic arm. Each time the flag passes by the sensor, the sensor generates a signal. A controller which is coupled to the position encoder and to the sensor compares the position of the robotic device indicated by the position encoder at the time the sensor detects the presence of the flag with a predetermined value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A position sensing apparatus for use with a robotic device which moves along a predetermined, fixed path with respect to a base, the fixed path including a verification position, the apparatus comprising: position encoder means for sensing a relative position between the robotic device and the base and producing a signal indicating said relative position; an interrupt flag coupled to one of the robotic device and the base; interrupt sensor means, coupled to the other one of the robotic device and the base, for sensing said interrupt flag when the robotic device moves through the verification position and for producing a position verification signal indicative thereof; and controller means, coupled to said position encoder means and said interrupt sensor means, for receiving said position signal and said position verification signal and for comparing the relative position indicated by said position encoder with said verification position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said interrupt sensor means is an optical sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said optical sensor includes a light source and a photo detector. 4. A robotic device with a position sensing apparatus, comprising: a base; a robotic arm movably mounted to said base; a servo mechanism configured to cause movement of said robotic arm to move relative to said base through a range of motion along a predetermined path; position encoder means for sensing a relative position between said robotic arm and said base and producing a position signal indicating said relative position; an interrupt flag coupled to one of said robotic arm and said base; interrupt sensor means, coupled to the other one of said robotic arm and said base, for sensing said interrupt flag when said robotic arm moves through a verification position and for producing a position verification signal indicative thereof; and controller means, coupled to said position encoder means and said interrupt sensor means, for receiving said position signal and said position verification signal and for comparing the relative position indicated by said position encoder with said verification 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said interrupt sensor means is an optical sensor. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said optical sensor includes a light source and a photo detector. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said optical interrupt sensor is attached to said fixed base. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said controller means is configured to determine the position of said robotic arm based on said position signal output by said position encoder means each time said interrupt flag is detected by said interrupt sensor means and to compare said position to an acceptable range. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said controller means is configured to generate an error signal when the position indicated by said position encoder means when said robotic arm is positioned at said verification position, is outside said acceptable range. 10. A method for monitoring the positional integrity of a robotic device having a motor for driving the robotic device through a range of motion along a predetermined, fixed path with respect to a base including a verification position, the device including a position encoder which senses a relative position between the robotic device and the base, and produces a position signal indicating the relative position, an interrupt flag attached to one of the robotic device and the base, and an interrupt sensor means attached to the other one of the robotic device and the base, the method comprising the steps of: (1) detecting the interrupt flag with the interrupt sensor means when the robotic device moves through the verification position; (2) producing a position verification signal when the interrupt flag is detected by the interrupt sensor means; (3) recording the relative position of the robotic device indicated by the position encoder at the time the interrupt flag is detected; (4) comparing said relative position with a predetermined value; and (5) generating an error signal if the difference between said relative position and said predetermined value exceeds a fixed amount. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein prior to step (4), the predetermined value is calculated by averaging a fixed number of positions recorded in step (3). 12. The method of claim 10, wherein steps (1) through (5) are repeated for each range of motion of the robotic device. 