A rigid three-dimensional preform is made by moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcement material superposed and coplanar to a cutter, the webs being coated with an electromagnetic energy-curable binder and pressed together. Prior to cutting a blank in a two-dimensional development of the three-dimensional preform from the webs, the webs are tacked together at spaced local zones by locally curing the binder at those zones by locally applying the appropriate electromagnetic radiation (microwave, ultraviolet, electron) so that the webs travel as one to the cutter. After cutting of the blank, the blank is loaded into a mold to replicate the three-dimensional shape of the preform and the remainder of the binder is cured in the mold by the application of the appropriate electromagnetic radiation. An auxiliary member may be attached to the preform by applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least one location on the preform, moving the auxiliary member into a desired position and intimate contact with the binder-coated location and the binder cured at that location by the application of the appropriate electromagnetic radiation.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional preform, comprising: means for moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcing material along respective paths and guiding the webs superposed such that they superpose coplanar to extend parallel to one another and travel parallel to and in contact with one another; means applying an uncured electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least one surface of facing surfaces of the webs; means for pressing the parallel contacting, moving webs together to spread the binder and increase the permeation thereof into the webs; means for locally applying electromagnetic radiation into selected spaced locations of the pressed contacting webs to cure the binder and thereby tack the webs together at said selected spaced locations; means for cutting blanks of a predetermined shape from the webs of fibrous reinforcing material; means for forming the blank into a desired three-dimensional shape of the preform; and means for applying electromagnetic radiation to the shaped blank to cure the remaining uncured binder and rigidize the shaped blank into the desired rigid three-dimensional preform. 2. Apparatus for making rigid three-dimensional preforms, comprising: a source of reinforcement material, said source including a plurality of rolls of the reinforcement material to be dispensed from said rolls toward a predetermined location as a plurality of converging superposed webs; a binder station intermediate said source and said predetermined location for applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the moving superposed webs; pressing means receiving and drawing the webs from said source and including guide means at said predetermined location for guiding said plurality of moving webs to move together parallel to one another and pressing adjacent webs into intimate contact to spread the binder and improve the permeation thereof into the webs; energetic basting means for receiving and tacking said plurality of moving webs together, including electromagnetic energy means for radiating and curing the binder in spaced local zones through the superposed webs and tacking the same together at said local zones; cutting means for receiving the tacked webs from said energetic basting means and cutting individual mats therefrom each shaped as a two-dimensional planar development of the desired preform; molding means including a mold operable to receive and press the individual mats into the desired three-dimensional preform shape, and electromagnetic radiation means coupling electromagnetic energy into said mold to cure the remaining uncured binder and rigidize the shaped structure; and material handling means for moving the individual mats from said cutting means and into said mold. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein: the binder station applies an ultraviolet energy-curable binder; and said electromagnetic energy means comprises ultraviolet wave generation means. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein: said ultraviolet wave generation means comprises at least one ultraviolet lamp. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein: the binder station applies a microwave energy-curable binder; and said electromagnetic radiation means comprises microwave generation means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein: said electromagnetic energy means comprises a split waveguide coupled to said microwave generator and receiving the superposed moving webs therethrough. 7. Apparatus for making a hollow rigid three-dimensional preform as a carrier preform and attaching at least one auxiliary member thereto, comprising: a source of glass fiber reinforcement material, said source including a plurality of rolls of the reinforcement material which is dispensed toward a predetermined location from said rolls as a plurality of converging superposed webs; binder applying means intermediate said source and said predetermined location for applying an ultraviolet energy-curable binder to at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the moving superposed webs; pressing means receiving and drawing said webs including guide means at said predetermined location for guiding said plurality of moving webs to move together parallel to one another and pressing adjacent ones of the webs into intimate contact to spread the binder resin and improve contact thereof with the fibers of the webs; energetic basting means for receiving and tacking said plurality of moving webs together, including ultraviolet radiation means for radiating and curing spaced local zones through the superposed webs of glass fiber reinforcement material thereby tacking the same together in said spaced local zones; cutting means for receiving the tacked webs from said energetic basting means and cutting an individual multilayer mat therefrom shaped as a two-dimensional planar development of the desired preform; molding means including a mold operable to receive and press the individual mats into the desired three-dimensional preform shape, and ultraviolet radiation means coupling ultraviolet radiation into said mold to cure the remaining uncured binder resin and rigidize the molded structure; material handling means for moving the individual mats from said cutting means and into said mold; and energetic stitching means for attaching the at least one auxiliary member to the preform, said material handling means comprising material manipulation means for orienting the preform into a predetermined position, and said energetic stitching means comprising further binder applying means for applying ultraviolet energy-curable binder to at least one selected location on the preform, means for moving the at least one auxiliary member, means for moving the at least one auxiliary member into a desired position and into intimate contact with the preform at the least one selected ultraviolet radiation to said at least one selected area to cure the binder thereat and attach the at least one auxiliary member to the preform. 8. Apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional reinforced preform comprising: means forming a rigid preform of a desired shape; means applying a binder curable by the application of ultraviolet energy to the preform; means applying a reinforcement member to the preform; and means applying ultraviolet energy to the binder at predetermined selected locations to stitch the reinforcement member to the preform joining the preform and reinforcement member rigidly. 9. Apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional reinforced preform constructed in accordance with claim 8: wherein said means for applying binder applies the binder at predetermined selected locations to the preform; and said means for applying ultraviolet energy applies the energy to the binder at said locations to stitch the reinforcement member to the preform. 10. Apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional reinforced preform comprising: means forming a rigid preform of a desired shape; means applying a binder curable by the application of electromagnetic radiation to the preform; means applying a reinforcement member to the preform; and means applying electromagnetic radiation the binder at predetermined select locations to stitch the reinforcement member to the preform joining the preform and reinforcement member rigidly. 11. Apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional reinforced preform constructed in accordance with claim 10: wherein said means for applying binder applies the binder at predetermined select locations to the preform; and said means for applying electromagnetic radiation applies the radiation to the binder at said locations to stitch the reinforcement member to the preform. 12. An apparatus for the attachment of members to preforms comprising the combination: means for applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder at a binder area to at least one of the areas of a carrier preform or to a member where the preform and member are to be attached; means positioning the preform and member in an oriented location into intimate contact at said binder area; and positioning an electromagnetic stitcher having a microwave energy output and directing electromagnetic energy to said binder area to energetically stitch and attach said preform and said member. 13. An apparatus for the attachment of a member to a preform constructed in accordance with claim 12: wherein said applying means applies an ultraviolet energy-curable binder and said stitcher has an ultraviolet energy output and directs ultraviolet energy to said binder area to energetically stitch and attach said preform and said member. 14. An apparatus for the attachment of a member to a preform constructed in accordance with claim 13: wherein said applying means directs said binder in a spray to apply said binder to the binder area. 15. An apparatus for the attachment of a member to a preform constructed in accordance with claim 13: wherein said applying means applies the binder at a plurality of binder areas between the preform and the member. 16. An apparatus for the attachment of a member to a preform constructed in accordance with claim 13: wherein said stitcher has a movable support to scan the binder area for energetically stitching and attaching the member to said preform. 17. An apparatus for the attachment of a member to a preform constructed in accordance with claim 13: wherein said stitcher is shaped to conform to the shape of the carrier preform. 18. An apparatus for the attachment of a member to a preform constructed in accordance with claim 13: wherein said applying means applies said binder along a marginal edge of the carrier preform. 