A microscope slide stage for holding a plurality of slides in a plane for sequential viewing by any slide viewer, the stage including a plurality of slide slots have associated with each slot a slidable wedging clamp for securing slides on the stage. The slide stage is particularly suitable for use with computerized slide mapping and analyzing devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A slide stage for securing a plurality of slides on a single slide viewing platform comprising: a base defining at least two slide slots for supporting at least one slide having a first slide edge and a second slide edge, and further defining a wedge slot between the slide slots wherein each slide slot includes a first locating edge and a second locating edge wherein the first locating edge includes at least two locating points for contacting a point on the first slide edge, and wherein the second locating edge includes at least one additional locating point for contacting a point on the second slide edge, and wherein each wedge slot includes a first guiding edge and a second guiding edge for guiding a wedge means therebetween into a wedging position against the slide for securing the slide within one of the slide slots, whereby the slide is in engagement with the slot locating points. 2. The slide stage of claim 1 wherein the wedge means includes a wedge end and a handle end, and wherein the wedge end includes a first side having an undercut beveled edge portion adjacent the handle end and an overcut beveled edge adjacent the wedge end and a second side having a beveled edge portion adjacent the wedge end so that the wedge means is insertable within the first and second guiding edges of the wedge slot for movement from a first position away from a slide positioned in the slide slot to a second secured position with the second overcut beveled edge end resting on the top surface of the slide. 3. The slide stage of claim 1 wherein the slide slots and wedge slot are in substantially the same plane and wherein the wedge slot includes a clamp supporting surface contiguous with a slide supporting surface and wherein the slide supporting surface has an opening therein for viewing a slide specimen mounted by the slide. 4. The slide stage of claim 1 wherein the wedge means is formed of a single piece of compliant material. 5. The slide stage of claim 4 wherein the wedge material is an injection molded plastic. 6. The slide stage of claim 4 wherein the wedge material is a machinable plastic. 7. The slide stage of claim 1 wherein the base, slide slots, and the wedge slot are formed of a single piece of rigid material. 8. The slide stage of claim 7 wherein the rigid material is a metal and wherein at least the first and second locating edges have a hardness comparable to the hardness of glass. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the metal is aluminum which has been hard anodized to provide the first and second locating edges having the hardness comparable to glass for wear resistance. 10. The slide stage of claim 1 further comprising a viewing means mounted to the viewing platform, and means for moving the base from a first position with the first slide slot in alignment with the field of view of the slide viewing means to a second position with the second slide slot in alignment with the field of view of the viewing means. 11. The slide stage of claim 10 wherein the base has a generally circular top face and wherein the at least two slide slots includes a plurality of slide slots about the periphery of the top face of the base, each pair of slide slots having between them the wedge slot. 12. The slide stage of claim 11 wherein the base includes two, spaced-apart, calibration targets for calibrating the base relative to the field of view of the slide viewing means. 13. The slide stage of claim 11 wherein the base further includes a calibration target for use in adjusting the focus of the viewing means. 14. The slide stage of claim 10 wherein the base moving means comprises a means for rotation of the base about a central axis for sequentially positioning the slide slots in the field of view of the slide viewing means. 15. The slide stage of claim 14 wherein the base moving means further comprises means for translational movement of the base in at least one linear direction in the plane of the base. 16. The slide stage of claim 15 wherein the base moving means further comprises means for translational movement of the base in at least one linear direction perpendicular to the plane of the base. 17. The slide stage of claim 16 further comprising computer control means for controlling the translational moving means. 18. The slide stage of claim 10 wherein the base moving means further comprises computer controllable drive means for operating the base moving means. 19. A method of securing a plurality of slides on a single slide stage comprising the steps of: Placing at least two slides on a stage base with each of their major surfaces resting on the base within slide slots defined by the base, each of the slide slots having at least three slot edges defining a surface area larger than the surface area of the slide; and Positioning a wedge in at least one of the slide slots having a slide therein in wedging engagement between at least two of the slide slot edges and the slide. 20. An apparatus for securing a plurality of slides in a single plane, each slide having two major surfaces, for viewing by a microscope objective comprising: a base having at least two slide slots therein wherein each slot includes a slot surface for supporting one of the major surfaces of the slide, each slot defined by at least three slot edges and having an area defined by the slot edges which is larger than the major surface area of the slide; and a wedge for insertion into the slide slot to wedge the slide against at least two of the slot edges. 21. An apparatus for sequentially viewing a plurality of slides, each slide having two major surfaces, with each slide being supported by a single slide stage comprising: a slide stage containing a plurality of slide slots for supporting a plurality of slides beneath one major surface of each slide, wherein each slot includes a frame having three edge portions and a slide supporting surface and wherein the frame is larger than the slides to be viewed; and a wedge for insertion within at least one slide slot for securing a slide in wedging engagement with the slide slot. 22. An apparatus for securing a plurality of slides in side by side position for sequential viewing by a microscope objective comprising: a slide stage having at least a first and a second slide slot therein, each slot defined by at least three slot edges and having an area defined by the edges which is larger than the area occupied by a slide; a first and second wedge for insertion into the first and second slide slots to wedge a first and second slide against at least two of the slot edges; means for mounting a microscope objective in a fixed position relative to the slide stage; means for mounting the slide stage for movement into alignment with the fixed microscope objective; and means for moving the slide stage from a first position wherein a first slide slot is in alignment with the fixed microscope objective to a second position wherein a second slide slot is in alignment with the fixed microscope objective. 