A wheel assembly includes a support, a cage rotatably mounted on the support and having a longitudinal rotation axis, a first ball wheel rotatably mounted in the cage and having a rotation axis orthogonal to the rotation axis of the cage, and a second ball wheel rotatably mounted in the cage and having a rotation axis orthogonal to the rotation axis or the cage and to the rotation axis of the first ball wheel. A control circuit includes a photodetector signal which indicates ground contact for each ball wheel, and a tachometer which indicates actual drive shaft velocity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling a rolling platform having at least three wheel assemblies, each wheel assembly including a pair of ball wheels driven by a drive shaft of a corresponding drive motor, the apparatus comprising: means for inputting a command signal indicative of a desired platform direction and velocity of translation and angular velocity of rotation necessary to achieve a desired platform position and orientation following operation of the drive motors for a given period of time; means for determining desired shaft velocities for the at least three drive motor shafts necessary to impart the inputted desired platform direction and velocity of translation and angular velocity of rotation; first sensing means for sensing actual shaft velocity of the three drive motors; second sensing means for sensing ground contact for the pair of ball wheels for each wheel assembly; means, coupled to the first and second sensing means, for calculating actual platform position and orientation after a given time of operation of the drive motors; means for comparing the desired platform position and orientation to the actual platform position and orientation; and means for altering the command signal to achieve coincidence between the desired position and orientation of the platform and the actual position and orientation of the platform. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each wheel assembly includes a support, a cage rotatably mounted on the support and having a longitudinal rotation axis, a first ball wheel rotatably mounted in the cage and having a rotation axis orthogonal to the rotation axis of the cage, and a second ball wheel rotatably mounted in the cage and having a rotation axis orthogonal to the rotation axis or the cage and to the rotation axis of the first ball wheel. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the support includes a frame having first and second parallel opposite end plates extending radially outwardly from a base plate, and a drive shaft journalled in the first and second end plates for rotation about the longitudinal rotation axis of the cage. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising drive motor means mounted on the support for rotating the cage and thus the first and second ball wheels about the longitudinal axis of the cage. 5. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cage includes first and second interconnected rectangular brackets mounted on the drive shaft, and being oriented orthogonally with respect to each other. 6. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein each ball wheel has a spherical surface and two flat sides, whereby as the drive shaft rotates, one spherical surface of either the first and second ball wheels is always in contact with the ground. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the determining means includes means for computing the driving shaft velocities for each respective drive motor according to the following equations: ##EQU4## where R is the radius of the ball wheels and Li represents the distance between the center of the platform and the center of the wheel of the assembly "i" currently contacting the ground, .PSI. denotes the angular velocity of an internal reference frame of the platform with respect to an absolute reference from (x,y), the magnitude of the platform translational velocity is denoted by .vertline.V.vertline. and its direction with respect to the platform internal reference frame is denoted by .THETA.. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the calculating means comprises means for integrating the rotational and translational velocities with the values of the shaft velocities fed back during a loop cycle according to the following formula: ##EQU5## wherein if both right-hand-sides of equations (5) and (6) are zero, then .vertline.V.vertline.=0 and .THETA. is kept at its value from the previous loop cycle. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the calculating means determines that if both right-hand sides (RHS) of equations (5) and (6) are zero, then .vertline.V.vertline.=0 and .THETA. is kept at its value from the previous loop cycle, and if only the RHS of equation (5) is zero, then .THETA.=0 or .THETA.=.pi. depending on whether the sign of the RHS of equation (6) is positive or negative, respectively, and .vertline.V.vertline. is given by equation (6), and if only the RHS of equation (6) is zero, then .THETA.=.+-..pi./2 with the sign given by the sign of the RHS of equation (5), and .vertline.V.vertline. is given by equation 5, and if neither RHS's are zero, then ##EQU6## with .THETA. determined by the sign of the RHS of equation (5), and .vertline.V.vertline. given by equation (5) or (6). 10. A rolling assembly comprising: a platform having an upper surface and a lower surface; three ball wheel assemblies mounted on the lower surface of the platform, each having a pair of ball wheels operatively coupled to a drive motor; control means, coupled to the drive motors, for causing the drive motors to impart omni-directional, holonomic motion in the platform with fully decoupled and independently controllable translational and rotational movements, the motion of the platform being defined by three kinmatic equations having a plurality of directional variables; and movement command input means, for inputting at least three of the directional variable to thereby provide platform motion vectors based on the kinematic equations. 11. A rolling assembly according to claim 10, wherein each wheel assembly includes a support connected to the lower surface of the platform, a cage rotatably mounted on the support and having a longitudinal rotation axis, a first ball wheel rotatably mounted in the cage and having a rotation axis orthogonal to the rotation axis of the cage, and a second ball wheel rotatably mounted in the cage and having a rotation axis orthogonal to the rotation axis or the cage and to the rotation axis of the first ball wheel. 12. A rolling assembly according to claim 11, wherein the support ball wheel assembly includes a frame having first and second parallel opposite end plates extending radially outwardly from a base plate, and a drive shaft journalled in the first and second end plates for rotation about the longitudinal rotation axis of the cage. 13. A rolling assembly according to claim 12, wherein each corresponding drive motor is mounted on the support for rotating the corresponding cage and thus the corresponding first and second ball wheels about a longitudinal axis of the corresponding cage. 14. A rolling assembly according to claim 13, wherein each ball wheel of each ball wheel assembly has a spherical surface and two flat sides, whereby as the drive shaft rotates, one spherical surface of either the first and second ball wheels is always in contact with the ground. 15. A rolling assembly according to claim 10, wherein the three ball wheel assemblies extend radially outwardly from a center of the platform at 120.degree. to each other. 16. A rolling assembly according to claim 15, wherein the control means includes means for computing the drive shaft velocities for each respective drive motor according to the following equations: ##EQU7## where R is the radius of the ball wheels and Li represents the distance between the center of the platform and the center of the wheel of the assembly "i" currently contacting the ground, .PSI. denotes the angular velocity of an internal reference frame of the platform with respect to an absolute reference from (x,y), the magnitude of the platform translational velocity is denoted by .vertline.V.vertline. and its direction with respect to the platform internal reference frame is denoted by .THETA.. 17. A rolling assembly according to claim 16, further comprising a feed back loop associated with each control signal, and including a tachometer associated with each drive motor and providing actual driving velocity data to the computing means. 18. A rolling assembly according to claim 17, further comprising photosensor means associated with each ball wheel assembly for providing ground contact data to the computing means. 19. A rolling assembly according to claim 18, wherein the movement command input means for provides platform steering input data to the computing means. 20. A rolling assembly according to claim 19, wherein the movement command input means comprises a joystick, and the directional variables are .vertline.V.vertline. sin .theta., .vertline.V.vertline. cos .theta., and .psi., where .psi. is angular velocity, .theta. is the direction of the platform, and V is the magnitude of translational velocity of the platform. 21. An apparatus for controlling a rolling platform having at least three ball wheel assemblies, each assembly having two ball wheels driven by a drive shaft of a drive motor, the apparatus comprising: means for outputting a drive signal indicative of a desired shaft velocity to each drive motor necessary to impart a desired motion in the platform; means for estimating the current orientation and position of the platform using data on the timing of contact with the ground switches from one wheel to the other for each wheel assembly; and means for correcting the drive signal to account for differences between the desired motion and the estimated current orientation and position of the platform. 22. An apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the outputting means is a computer including means for determining shaft velocity for each drive motor according to the following equations: ##EQU8## where R is the radius of the ball wheels and Li represents the distance between the center of the platform and the center of the wheel of the assembly "i" currently contacting the ground, and .psi. denotes the angular velocity of an internal reference frame of the platform with respect to an absolute reference from (x,y). 23. An apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the estimating means comprises means or integrating the rotational and translational velocities with the values of the shaft velocities fed back during a loop cycle according to the following formula: ##EQU9## wherein if both right-hand-sides of equations (5) and (6) are zero, then .vertline.V.vertline.=0 and .THETA. kept at its value from the previous loop cycle. 