A method of applying a clear glass primer material and then a black glass primer material onto the marginal edge (40) of a vehicular window glass (42), such as a windshield and/or rear window of an automobile, in which a dispenser (38) is employed to discharge a clear primer material in discrete streams or drops and in which a black primer material is conformally coated onto the clear primer material by another dispenser (36). The clear and black primer materials are able to be applied to the window glass in a single pass operation.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A method of dispensing fluid coating materials onto a glass substrate in a single pass comprising the steps of: a) causing a wick means and first and second dispensing means to be moved together relative to the glass; b) intermittently dispensing a first fluid coating material from said first dispensing means such that stream or drops of the first coating material are propelled under pressure to impinge upon the glass at an angle of incident which is less than 45.degree. while substantially avoiding applying the first liquid coating material outside a portion of the glass to be coated; c) distributing the dispensed fluid material over the portion of the substrate to be coated by said wick means; and d) dispensing a second coating material from said second dispensing means such that a liquid film emission is discharged from said second dispensing means, the liquid film emission being substantially free of atomized particles of the second coating material, to provide a conformal coating to the first coating material. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first fluid material is directed to impinge upon the glass within an area formed between the wick means and the glass or adjacent thereto, and wherein at least some deflected droplets or particles of fluid coating material are entrapped by the wick means. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: providing a first support arm for carrying said first dispensing means; providing a second support arm for carrying said second dispensing means; a support means, said first and second support arms attached to said support means; and wherein said wick means is disposed between said first and second dispensing means. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second dispenser means are diametrically opposed to one another and wherein said wick means is disposed between said first and second dispenser means. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein once the first dispensing means first begins dispensing said first coating material, the dispensing of said second coating material is delayed until the second dispensing means has been moved relative to the glass to provide a coating of said second coating material onto said first coating material which has been deposited on the glass; and once the portion of the glass to be coated has been coated with said first coating material, discontinuing the dispensing of coating material from said first dispensing means while continuing the dispensing and relative movement thereof of the second dispensing means until the first coating material deposited on the substrate has been completely coated with the second coating material. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the intermittent dispensing of the fluid coating material is varied over the portion of the glass to be coated. 7. The method of preparing window glass for attachment to a vehicle comprising the steps of: a) causing relative movement between a coating tool assembly and said window glass; b) intermittently dispensing a first fluid coating material from a first dispenser means, carried by said coating tool assembly, such that streams or drops of the first coating material are propelled under pressure to impinge upon a marginal edge of the glass while substantially avoiding the application of liquid coating material outside the marginal edge of the glass to be coated, wherein the fluid material is directed to impinge within an area formed between a wick means, carried by said coating tool assembly, and the glass, or adjacent thereto, such that at least some deflected droplets or particles of fluid coating material are entrapped by the wick means; c) distributing the dispensed fluid material, over the marginal edge of the glass to be coated, by said wick means; d) delaying the dispensing of a second coating material from a second dispensing means, carried by said coating tool assembly, until said second dispensing means has been moved relative to the glass, so as to provide a conformal coating of said second coating material onto said first coating material which has been deposited on the glass, said second dispensing means dispensing said second coating material as a liquid film emission, substantially free of atomized particles of the second coating material; and e) discontinuing the dispensing of coating material from said first dispensing means once the portion of the glass to be coated has been coated with said first coating material, while continuing the dispensing and relative movement thereof of the second dispensing means until the first coating material deposited on the substrate has been completely coated with the second coating material. 8. A method of dispensing fluid coating materials onto a substrate comprising the steps of: a. causing relative movement between a first dispensing means and the substrate; b. intermittently dispensing a first fluid coating material from said first dispensing means such that streams or drops of the first coating material are propelled under pressure to impinge upon the substrate at an angle of incident which is less than 45.degree. while substantially avoiding applying the first liquid coating material outside a portion of the substrate to be coated; c. distributing the dispensed fluid material over the portion of the substrate to be coated; and d. causing relative movement between a second dispensing means and the substrate while dispensing a second coating material from said second dispensing means such that a liquid film emission is discharged from said second dispensing means, the liquid film emission being substantially free of atomized particles of the second coating material, to provide a conformal coating onto the first coating material. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the first and second dispensing means are carried by a coating tool assembly. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the coating tool assembly includes: a first support arm for carrying said first dispensing means; a second support arm for carrying said second dispensing means; a support means, said first and second support arms attached to said support means; and a means for distributing the first fluid material is disposed between said first and second dispensing means. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the means for distributing the first fluid material includes a wick means wherein the first coating material is directed to impinge upon the substrate within an area formed between the wick means and the substrate or adjacent thereto, and wherein at least some defected droplets or particles of fluid coating material are entrapped by the wick means. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the intermittent dispensing of the first fluid coating material is varied over the portion of the substrate to be coated. 