A pallet assembly 10 with a select container 16, 18, 20, or 22 thereon comprises a body member 11 having a rear face 12 and front face 14, and sidewalls 48 supportably surrounding the rear and front faces 12, 14. In an alternative embodiment, a face plate 27 having a plurality of contoured openings 32 is affixed to rear face 12. Rear face 12 has at least one cavity 24 and a base 26 extending upwardly into cavity 24 defining a container receptacle 28. Front face 14 has at least one cavity 30 having a base 34 extending inwardly of cavity 30 and means cooperatively associated with the cavity 30 for defining a container receptacle 36 in front face 14. In practice, either the front face 14 or rear face 14 can be used to transport and store thereon a select container 16, 18, 20. 22.
Claims Having described our invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to make and use it, we claim and desire to secure Letters Patent of the United States for: 1. A pallet assembly for transporting and storing one of a select sized container, said pallet assembly comprising: a body member having a first face and a second face; said first face having at least one first cavity having a plurality of substantially concentric upstanding sidewalls defining a first container receptacle, said first container receptacle having a base common to said sidewalls extending upwardly into said first cavity; said second face having at least one second cavity and means cooperatively associated with said second cavity on at least one side of said second cavity defining a second container receptacle and wherein said base extending upwardly in said first container receptacle extends inwardly of said second container receptacle; whereby said first container receptacle or said second container receptacle can be used to transport and store one of a select sized container. 2. The pallet assembly recited in claim 1 further comprising at least one retaining means mounted on interior walls of said container receptacle for securely holding said select sized container. 3. The pallet assembly recited in claim 1 wherein said body member is substantially a parallelapiped. 4. The pallet assembly recited in claim 1 wherein said body member further comprises means for draining said pallet. 5. The pallet assembly recited in claim 1 wherein said body member comprises means for graspably handling said pallet. 6. The pallet assembly recited in claim 1 wherein said body member comprises means for displaying bar coded information. 7. A pallet assembly with a container thereon, one said container having a length, width and a base with central and peripheral protuberances extending outwardly from said base, said pallet assembly comprising: a) a body having opposed front and rear faces and upstanding sidewalls supportably surrounding said front and rear faces; b) said upstanding sidewalls comprising spaced apart, substantially parallel inner and outer wall members and a plurality of support members structurally interconnecting said inner and outer wall members; c) said front face having at least one cavity having a base extending upwardly into said cavity, said cavity defining a first container receptacle, said cavity having a width and length substantially equal to said width and length of said container; d) said rear face having at least one substantially rectangular central cavity having a base, wherein said base extending upwardly into said cavity of said front face extends inwardly of said cavity in said rear face for receiving said central protuberance of said base of said container, said cavity having a width and length substantially equal to said central protuberance of said container and a depth substantially equal to said height of said central protuberance of said container so that said central protuberance of said container fits snugly in said cavity; e) a face plate attachable to said rear face, said face plate having a plurality of contoured openings cooperatively associated with said central cavity of said rear face to define at least a second container receptacle, said contoured openings configured to receive said peripheral protuberances of said base of said container; f) means projecting outwardly in each said container receptacles in said front and rear faces for engageably retaining a circumferential portion of said container; g) at least one throughhole defining a pocket in said outer wall member of said sidewall for graspably engaging said pallet; and, h) a plurality of recesses on said outer wall of said sidewall for receiving and displaying bar code information. 8. The pallet assembly with container thereon recited in claim 7 wherein said face plate and said rear face are attached with an adhesive material. 9. The pallet assembly with container thereon recited in claim 7 wherein the body portion is a made of a thermoformable material. 10. The pallet assembly with container thereon recited in claim 7 wherein said thermoformable material is polyvinyl chloride. 11. The pallet assembly with container thereon recited in claim 7 wherein said central protuberance of one said container comprises recess portions for snugly engaging said means projecting outwardly in said container receptacle. 12. The pallet assembly with container thereon recited in claim 7 wherein said front and rear faces each has a plurality of througholes for draining solution therefrom. 13. A pallet assembly having a container of a select size container thereon, one said container having a length, width and a base with central and peripheral protuberances extending outwardly from side base, said pallet assembly comprising: a) a body having opposed front and rear faces and upstanding sidewalls supportably surrounding said front and rear faces; b) said upstanding sidewalls comprising spaced apart, substantially parallel inner and outer wall members and a plurality of support members structurally interconnecting said inner and outer wall members; c) said front face having a plurality of substantially concentric cavities having a common base extending upwardly into said cavities, each cavity defining a sized container receptacle, each said cavity having an interior wall having a width and length substantially equal to said width and length of said sized container receptacle, each interior wall further having spaced apart slots; d) said rear face having at least one substantially rectangular central cavity having a base, wherein said base extending upwardly into said cavities of said front face extends inwardly of said cavities in said rear face for receiving said central protuberance of said base of said sized container, said cavity having an interior wall having a width and length substantially equal to said central protuberance of said sized container and a depth substantially equal to said height of said central protuberance of said sized container so that said central protuberance of said sized container fits snugly in said cavity, said interior wall further having a plurality of spaced apart slots; e) a face plate attachable to said rear face, said face plate having a plurality of contoured openings cooperatively associated with said central cavity of said rear face to define a sized container receptacle, said openings configured to receive said peripheral protuberance of said base of said sized container; f) a plurality of resilient inserts, each insert being slidably disposed in one said slot in said interior walls, said inserts projecting outwardly in each said container receptacle for engageably retaining a circumferential portion of said sized container; g) at least one throughhole defining a pocket in said outer wall member of said sidewall for graspably engaging said pallet; and, h) a plurality of recesses on said outer wall of said sidewall for receiving and displaying bar code information. 14. The pallet assembly recited in claim 13 wherein said face plate and said rear face are attached with an adhesive material. 15. The pallet assembly recited in claim 13 wherein said adhesive material is polyvinyl chloride. 16. The pallet assembly recited in claim 13 wherein said inserts are made of a thermoplastic rubber material. 17. The pallet assembly recited in claim 13 wherein said inserts have a plurality of compressible ribs for engaging the circumferential portion of said container. 