Disclosed is a method of manufacturing a printed circuit panel. The method is carried out without a cleanroom, but in a clean room environment. The first step is to place a thin, non-rigid panel in a suitable fixture, for example, for transfer and also for processing. The fixtured panel is then placed in an air tight transfer container, which has a substantially contaminant free atmosphere. The transfer container has a sealed door at one end. The transfer container is then brought into a seaiable, substantially airtight interlock with a process enclosure. This process enclosure also has a substantially contaminant free atmosphere, and a sealed door at one end. An airtight seal is formed between the transfer container and the process enclosure, and also between the surfaces of the two doors. This is to avoid introducing surface contaminants into the process enclosure and transfer container atmospheres. Next, the two doors are opened simultaneously. This is to allow the transfer of at least one panel and its fixture from the transfer container into the process enclosure. Inside the process enclosure the panel is transferred to a process station for a manufacturing process. Finally, the panel and its fixture are transferred from the process enclosure into the transfer container. This may be the same container or a different container. The doors of the process enclosure and the transfer container are then closed and sealed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of manufacturing a printed circuit panel comprising the steps of: a. providing a thin, non-rigid panel in a fixture; b. placing the fixture in an air tight transfer container having a substantially contaminant free atmosphere, and a sealed door at one end; c. bringing the transfer container into a sealable, substantially airtight interlock with a process enclosure having a substantially contaminant free atmosphere, and a sealed door at one end; d. forming an airtight seal between the transfer container and the process enclosure; e. forming an airtight seal between the surfaces of the two doors to avoid introducing surface contaminants into the process enclosure and transfer container atmospheres, and thereafter simultaneously opening the sealed doors of the process enclosure and the transfer container; f. transferring at least one panel and its fixture from the transfer container into the process enclosure; g. transferring the at least one panel to a process station inside the process enclosure and performing a process on the panel; h. thereafter transferring the at least one panel and its fixture from the process enclosure into the transfer container; i. closing the doors of the process enclosure and the transfer container. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the door of the transfer container is formed of a ferromagnetic material and is seated on a ferromagnetic gasket at the entrance of the transfer container, and the process enclosure door includes an electromagnetic clamp, which method comprises electromagnetically clamping the ferromagnetic door of the transfer container to the process enclosure door before simultaneously opening the sealed doors of the process enclosure and the transfer container. 3. The method of claim 1 comprising after transferring at least one panel and its fixture from the transfer container into the process enclosure: a. removing the panel from the fixture; b. transferring the at least one unfixtured panel to a process station inside the process enclosure and performing a process on the unfixtured panel; and c. returning the panel to a fixture. 4. The method of claim 1 comprising transferring at least one panel and its fixture from the transfer container into the process enclosure before transferring the at least one fixtured panel and its fixture to a process station inside the process enclosure and performing a process on the fixtured panel. 