The invention provides an apparatus and method for manipulating parts of the body in surgical procedures, particularly useful for peritoneal distension in laparoscopic surgery. The apparatus comprises a positionable support structure having an extendible horizontal arm rotatably mounted to an extendible vertical post, the post having a clamp at its lower end for mounting to a surgical table. An end segment at the distal end of the horizontal arm has a mount for mounting end-of-arm tooling, for example, peritoneal distension instruments. Locking mechanisms are disposed in the horizontal arm, vertical post and end segment to lock the support structure in a desired position. A motor is disposed within the vertical post for power-assisted extension and retraction of the vertical post. Preferably, the locking mechanisms and motor are controllable using switches mounted on the end segment. The method comprises providing a support structure as described mounted to a surgical table, positioning the distal end of the horizontal arm over a patient on the table, activating locking mechanisms in the horizontal arm and vertical post to lock the support structure in position, attaching peritoneal distension instruments to the distal end of the horizontal arm, and vertically extending the vertical post while the horizontal arm remains locked relative to the post, thereby distending the peritoneum of the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for peritoneal distension comprising the steps of: providing a support structure on a surgical table, said support structure including a vertical post and a horizontal arm; positioning a distal end of the horizontal arm over a patient on the surgical table while the vertical post remains stationary; coupling peritoneal distension instruments to a peritoneal structure of said patient; attaching said peritoneal distension instruments to the distal end of the horizontal arm; locking the horizontal arm relative to the vertical post; and vertically extending the vertical post while the horizontal arm remains locked relative to said post, thereby distending the peritoneum of the patient. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said locking comprises actuating a locking mechanism in said horizontal arm. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said locking comprises placing a load on said distal end of the horizontal arm to frictionally lock said horizontal arm in a radial position. 4. A method for peritoneal distension comprising the steps of: providing a support structure on a surgical table, said support structure including a vertical post and a horizontal arm; positioning a distal end of the horizontal arm over a patient on the surgical table while the vertical post remains stationary; coupling peritoneal distension instruments to a peritoneal structure of said patient; attaching said peritoneal distension instruments to the distal end of the horizontal arm; locking the horizontal arm relative to the vertical post; vertically extending the vertical post while the horizontal arm remains locked relative to said post, thereby distending the peritoneum of the patient; and preventing the vertical extension of the vertical post if a load on said horizontal arm produced when distending the patient's peritoneum reaches a threshold amount. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said locking comprises actuating a locking mechanism in said horizontal arm. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said locking comprises placing the load on said distal end of the horizontal arm to frictionally lock said horizontal arm in a radial position. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein said preventing comprises preventing the vertical extension of the vertical post by stopping a motor used to extend the vertical post when the threshold amount is reached. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising adjusting said threshold amount to various load limits. 9. The method of claim 4 further comprises of communicating the load on said horizontal arm to a user by an indicator, whereby the user can prevent the extension of the vertical post when the indicator indicates the threshold amount has been reached. 10. The method of claim 4 wherein said extending of the vertical post comprises pressing a switch on the distal end of the arm to activate a motor connected to the vertical post. 