An end effector for a robotic assembly for acquiring and manipulating articles having a substantially cylindrical aperture therein. The end effector has a cylindrical gripping portion having radially expandable fingers and a collar portion adapted to bear on the article. When the fingers are inserted into the aperture in the article and expanded the object is gripped over a large portion of the circumference of the aperture. The article is then translated from a vertical to horizontal position. The gripping portion is provided with a flat portion to allow the article to be contacted against a stop for easy withdrawal of the fingers. The entire cylindrical gripping portion is flexibly mounted to the robotic assembly to allow acquisition of an article presented to the gripping portion of the end effector in an off vertical alignment.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for acquiring, manipulating and positioning an article having an interior wall defining a cylindrical aperture therein, the apparatus comprising: (a) gripping means for contacting the interior wall of the article, said gripping means including a first set of finger segments each having an outer surface contoured for making full contact with the interior wall of the article, a second set of finger segments each having an outer surface contoured for making only partial contact with the interior wall of the article, and a stop member against which the article can be positioned to project inwardly into non-contacting portions of said contoured outer surface of said second set of finger segments, said first and second set of finger segments defining a common and generally cylindrical central core; (b) means located in said central core for moving said first and said second set of finger segments from a non-expanded position out of contact with the interior wall of the article into an expanded position in contact with said interior wall; and (c) means connected to said gripping means for moving the gripping means and thus the supported article from a substantially vertical orientation into a generally horizontal orientation for positioning the article against the stop member. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the non-contacting portions of said contoured outer surface of each finger segment of said second set of finger segments includes a longitudinally extending flat portion. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first and second sets of finger segments include a collar portion each for limiting forward travel of said gripping means into the cylindrical aperture of the article. 4. An apparatus for acquiring, manipulating and positioning a hollow cylindrical object having a shell thickness and interior walls defining an interior aperture, the apparatus comprising: (a) a stop member; (b) means for moving the object from a generally vertical orientation into a generally horizontal orientation for positioning against said stop member; and (c) a plurality of expandable members connected to said means for moving and having a common core and a generally cylindrical outer surface insertable into the interior aperture of the object for gripping the object by the interior walls, said generally cylindrical outer surface including a flat surface portion for facing downwardly when the object is moved into said generally horizontal orientation for positioning against the stop member, said flat surface portion allowing the stop member to project inwardly beyond the shell thickness of the object towards said common core of said expandable members, thereby enabling non-interference withdrawal of said expandable members from the interior aperture of the acquired such object stopped against the stop member. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said plurality of expandable members is mounted resiliently for deflectable movement along a vertical axis. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said flat surface potion of said expandable members extends substantially the length of said expandable members. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said plurality of expandable members is six. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said flat surface portion is formed on a plural number of adjacent expandable members of said six expandable members. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said plural number of adjacent expandable members is two. 