A force transducer for a robotic arm comprises a plurality of axially-contractible cells. Each cell includes first and second end pieces which are interconnected by a pair of flexible connecting members. The connecting members are disposed on opposite sides of a longitudinal axis. The connecting members are deflected inwardly towards the longitudinal axis by a pair of electromagnets to cause a change in length of the transducer. The transducers can be used to impart movement robotic devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A force transducer for a robotic device which is movable between an extended position and a retracted position, comprising: (a) first and second end pieces spaced from one another along a longitudinal axis; (b) a pair of flexible connecting members joining said first and second end pieces, said connecting members being disposed generally parallel to the longitudinal axis when the actuator is in an extended position; (c) a plurality of spaces disposed between the connecting members and spaced along said longitudinal axis so as to define a plurality of longitudinally-spaced segments, said connecting members being secured to opposing edges of said spacer; (d) a plurality of actuators disposed in pairs in respective segments for deflecting the connecting members relative to the longitudinal axis, each actuator pair including opposing first and second actuators disposed on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis with each actuator engaged with one of the connecting members, wherein the first and second actuators of each pair are moveable toward one another and away from one another along an actuator path disposed generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis; (e) wherein the deflection of the connecting members causes the force transducer to axially contract along the longitudinal axis. 2. The force applying member of claim 1 wherein the actuators comprise a pair of electromagnets. 3. The force transducer of claim I wherein said actuators are fixedly secured to respective connecting members so as to prevent relative movement between the connecting members and the actuator. 4. The force transducer of claim 3 wherein the actuators are secured to the connecting members at the center of each segment. 5. The actuator of claim I wherein the connecting strip is displaced inwardly towards the longitudinal axis by the actuator. 6. A force applying cell movable between an extended position and a retracted position comprising: (a) first and second end pieces spaced from one another along a longitudinal axis; (b) a pair of flexible connecting strips joining said first and second end pieces and disposed on opposite sides of said longitudinal axis; (c) an actuator disposed adjacent each connecting strip for deflecting the connecting strip relative to the longitudinal axis, wherein the actuators are moveable toward one another and away from one another along an actuator path disposed generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis; and (d) wherein the deflection of the connecting strips causes the force cell to axially contract along the longitudinal axis. 7. The actuator of claim 6 wherein the actuator comprise electromagnets. 8. The actuator of claim 6 wherein said actuators are fixedly secured to respective connecting strips so as to prevent relative movement between the connecting strips and the actuator. 9. The actuator of claim 8 wherein the actuators are secured to the connecting strips at the center of each segment. 10. The actuator of claim 6 wherein the connecting strip is displaced inwardly towards the longitudinal axis by the actuator. 11. A force applying member for a robotic device comprising: (a) a plurality of axially contractible cells disposed in end-to-end relationship; (b) wherein each cell includes: (1) first and second end pieces spaced from one another along a longitudinal axis; (2) a pair of flexible connecting strips joining said first and second end pieces and disposed on opposite sides of said longitudinal axis; and (3) an actuator disposed adjacent each connecting strip for deflecting the connecting strip relative to the longitudinal axis, wherein the actuators are moveable toward one another and away from one another along an actuator path disposed generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. 12. The actuator of claim 11 wherein the actuator comprise electromagnets. 13. The actuator of claim 11 wherein said actuators are fixedly secured to respective connecting strips so as to prevent relative movement between the connecting strips and the actuator. 14. The actuator of claim 13 wherein the actuators are secured to the connecting strips at the center of each segment. 15. The actuator of claim 11 wherein the connecting strip is displaced inwardly towards the longitudinal axis by the actuator. 16. A robotic device comprising: (a) first and second frame members movable with respect to one another; (b) a first force applying member connected between said first and second frame members for moving the frame members in a first direction relative to one another when the first force applying members axially contract; (c) a second force applying member connected between said first and second frame members for moving the frame members in a second direction relative to one another when the second force applying member axially contracts; (d) wherein said first and second force applying members each include: (1) first and second end pieces spaced from one another along a longitudinal axis; (2) a pair of flexible connecting strips joining said first and second end pieces and disposed on opposite sides of said longitudinal axis; (3) an actuator disposed adjacent each connecting strip for deflecting the connecting strip relative to the longitudinal axis, wherein the actuators are moveable toward one another and away from one another along an actuator path disposed generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. 17. The actuator of claim 16 wherein the actuator comprises electromagnets. 