The present invention relates to a novel method and apparatus for cutting small pieces of fabric by means of an ultrasonic horn and a hollow open centered cutting anvil. The cutting operation includes a pick mechanism incorporating two tapered pins and a stripper pad to maintain the fabric position before, during, and after the cutting operation. The pick head mechanism is designed to insure accuracy in locating these small fabric pieces, referred to as chips, in a subsequent assembly operation performed by the pick head. The assembly operation relates to attachment of small pieces of fabric by means of two miniature ultrasonic horns. The horns are combined with a pick and place mechanism which incorporates two tapered pins and a stripper pad to maintain the fabric position during the manufacturing process. This pick and place head, when attached to a robotic arm, is designed to insure accuracy in locating these small fabric pieces repeatedly in a thermoplastic cartridge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ultrasonic apparatus for cutting and placing individual chips of light lock material in a cartridge, said ultrasonic apparatus comprising: a machine frame; cutting means mounted to said frame for cutting individual chips of light lock material; positioning means mounted to said frame for positioning light lock material at said cutting means; cartridge holding means mounted to said frame; pivotable picking means mounted to said frame for picking one of said individual chips of light lock material from said cutting means and pivoting to position said one of said individual chips of light lock material over said cartridge holding means; removal means mounted to said pivotable picking means for removing said one of said individual chips of light lock material to a cartridge held by said cartridge holding means; and a retractable ultrasonic horn mounted to said pivotable picking means for tacking said one of said individual chips of light lock material to said cartridge. 2. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cutting means comprises: an ultrasonic horn engageable with one side of said light lock material for transmitting ultrasonic vibrations to said light lock material so as to cut said light lock material; and an anvil axially aligned with said ultrasonic horn and engageable with the other side of said light lock material. 3. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 2 wherein said anvil comprises an anvil having a hollow center section. 4. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 2 wherein said cutting means further comprises a resilient member connected to said anvil to allow alignment of said anvil and said ultrasonic horn prior to cutting. 5. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 4 wherein said resilient member comprises a rubber gasket. 6. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 2 wherein said positioning means comprises a shuttle mechanism for positioning said light lock material between said ultrasonic horn and said anvil. 7. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 6 wherein said shuttle mechanism comprises a system of pulleys and rollers for advancing a roll of light lock material through said cutting means. 8. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pivotable picking means comprises: a pivotable and retractable arm; and a pin mounted to said arm, wherein said pin is inserted into said one of said individual chips of light lock material when said arm is extended and wherein said pin removes said one of said individual chips of light lock material from said cutting means when said arm is retracted. 9. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 8 wherein said removal means comprises a retractable pad having an aperture therein for passage of said pin, wherein extension of said pad pushes said one of said individual chips of light lock material off of said pin and into said cartridge as said pin passes through said pad. 10. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 9 wherein said pad has an aperture therein for passage of said retractable ultrasonic horn, and further wherein extension of said retractable ultrasonic horn causes said horn to contact said one of said individual chips of light lock material held in said cartridge by said pad so as to tack said one of said individual chips of light lock material to said cartridge when said retractable ultrasonic horn is energized. 11. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 3 wherein said pivotable and retractable arm extends through said hollow center section of said anvil and removes said one of said individual chips of light lock material from said cutting means through said hollow center section. 12. The ultrasonic apparatus of claim 11 wherein said ultrasonic horn and said anvil are engaged with said light lock material after said light lock material is cut and until said pivotable picking means removes said one of said individual chips of light lock material from said cutting means through said hollow center section of said anvil. 13. An ultrasonic apparatus for cutting individual chips of light lock material, said ultrasonic apparatus comprising: an ultrasonic horn engageable with one side of light lock material for transmitting ultrasonic vibrations to said light lock material; an anvil axially aligned with said ultrasonic horn and engageable with the other side of said light lock material, said anvil having a hollow center; and means for positioning said light lock material between said ultrasonic horn and said anvil, wherein vibration of said ultrasonic horn against said light lock material and thereby against said anvil results in cutting of an individual chip of said light lock material. 14. An ultrasonic apparatus for picking and placing individual chips of light lock material in a cartridge, said ultrasonic apparatus comprising: a pivotable and retractable arm; a pin mounted to said arm, wherein said pin is inserted into an individual chip of light lock material when said arm is extended; a retractable pad mounted to said arm and having an aperture therein for passage of said pin, wherein extension of said pad pushes said individual chip of light lock material off of said pin and into a cartridge as said pin passes through said pad; and a retractable ultrasonic horn mounted to said arm, wherein said pad has an aperture therein for passage of said ultrasonic horn, and further wherein extension of said ultrasonic horn causes said horn to contact said individual chip of light lock material held in said cartridge by said pad so as to tack said individual chip of light lock material to said cartridge when said ultrasonic horn is energized. 