An apparatus comprises a fixture for positioning a first sheet metal part in proximity of a second sheet metal part so that each sheet metal part has one surface facing the other sheet metal part across a gap and one surface facing away from the other sheet metal part, wherein at least one of the sheet metal parts comprises galvanized steel. A laser beam delivery device applies a laser beam to one of the facing away surfaces. A feed wire source provides a feed wire comprising a supplemental wire and a reactive agent at an intersection of the laser beam and the one facing away surface. The apparatus affects relative movement between the one facing away surface and the laser beam to provide a laser weld between the two sheet metal parts.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An apparatus for welding galvanized steel, comprising: means for positioning a first sheet metal part in proximity of a second sheet metal part so that the first sheet metal part has a surface facing away from the second sheet metal part, at least one of the first and second sheet metal parts comprising galvanized steel; a laser beam delivery device adapted for applying a laser beam to the facing away surface of the first sheet metal part; a supply of feed wire wherein the feed wire comprises a supplemental metal and a reactive agent; a feed wire device adapted for providing the feed wire at an intersection of the laser beam and the facing away surface of the first metal part; and means for affecting relative movement between the laser beam and the first and second sheet metal parts, wherein the reactive agent reacts with zinc in the sheet metal part comprising galvanized steel to prevent at least a portion of the zinc from vaporizing and wherein the supplemental metal acts as filler for a resulting weld to provide quality laser welding of the two sheet metal parts, wherein a gap at least 0.040 inches wide exists between the first and second sheet metal parts. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the laser beam delivery device is a robot. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means for affecting relative movement comprises a robot. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, also comprising means for providing a shield gas. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, also comprising means for providing a shield gas with the feed wire. 6. The apparatus set forth in claim 2 also comprising a control unit for controlling the robot and a motorized wire feeder responsive to the control unit. 7. The apparatus set forth in claim 6 also comprising a laser beam generator responsive to the control unit. 8. A weld process comprising the steps of: positioning a first sheet metal part in proximity of a second sheet metal part so that the first sheet metal part has a surface facing away from the second sheet metal part, at least one of the first and second sheet metal parts comprising galvanized steel; applying a laser beam to the facing away surface of the first sheet metal part; supplying a feed wire comprising a supplemental metal and a reactive agent at an intersection of the laser beam and the facing away surface of the first metal part; and affecting a relative movement between the laser beam and the first and second sheet metal parts, wherein the reactive agent reacts with zinc in the sheet metal part comprising galvanized steel to prevent at least a portion of the zinc from vaporizing and wherein the supplemental metal acts as filler for a resulting weld to provide quality laser welding of the two sheet metal parts, wherein a gap of at least 0.040 inches exists between at least a portion of the first and second metal parts. 9. A process comprising the steps of: positioning a first work piece and second work piece together so that the first and second work pieces have first and second facing surfaces and so that a gap exists between at least a portion of the first and second facing surfaces, at least one of the first and second work pieces comprising galvanized steel and including zinc; applying a laser beam to an outside surface of the first work piece facing away from the second work piece; providing a feed wire comprising a reactive agent and a supplemental metal at an intersection of the laser beam and the outside surface of the first work piece; affecting a first melting of a first localized portion of the first work piece and a portion of the supplemental metal; affecting a reaction between the reactive agent and the zinc preventing at least a portion of the zinc from volatilizing; affecting a flow of the first melted first localized portion and the melted supplemental metal into the gap to bridge the first and second work pieces; affecting a second melting of a second localized portion of the second work piece proximate to the first melted first localized portion to form a molten weld bead; moving the laser beam along a weld path; and feeding the wire proximate to the intersection of the laser beam and the first work piece to weld the first and second work pieces together, wherein the gap is approximately 0.040 inches wide over at least a portion of the weld path. 10. An apparatus for welding galvanized steel, comprising: means for positioning at least three sheet metal parts in a stack-up, wherein at least one of the sheet metal parts includes one a surface facing away from other sheet metal parts and wherein at least one of the sheet metal parts comprises galvanized steel; a laser beam delivery device adapted for applying a laser beam to the one facing away surface; a supply of feed wire wherein the feed wire comprises a supplemental metal and a reactive agent; a feed wire device adapted for providing the feed wire at an intersection of the laser beam and the one facing away surface; and means for affecting relative movement between the laser beam and the stack-up, wherein the reactive agent reacts with zinc in the sheet metal part comprising galvanized steel to prevent at least a portion of the zinc from vaporizing and wherein the supplemental metal acts as filler for a resulting weld to provide quality laser welding of the at least three sheet metal parts. 11. The apparatus set forth in claim 10 wherein four sheet metal parts are positioned in the stack-up and welded by the laser beam. 12. A weld process comprising the steps of: positioning at least three sheet metal parts in a stack-up, wherein at least one of the sheet metal parts includes one surface facing away from other sheet metal parts, and wherein at least one of the sheet metal parts comprises galvanized steel; applying a laser beam to the one facing away surface; supplying a feed wire comprising a supplemental metal and a reactive agent at an intersection of the laser beam and the one facing away surface; and affecting a relative movement between the laser beam and the stack-up, wherein the reactive agent reacts with zinc in the sheet metal part comprising galvanized steel to prevent at least a portion of the zinc from vaporizing and wherein the supplemental metal acts as filler for a resulting weld to provide quality laser welding of the at least three sheet metal parts. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein four sheet metal parts are positioned in the stack-up and welded by the laser beam. 