This invention provides methods of obtaining novel polynucleotides and encoded polypeptides by use of non-stochastic methods of directed evolution (DirectEvolution.TM.). These methods include non-stochastic polynucleotide site-saturation mutagenesis (Gene Site Saturation Mutagenesis.TM.) and non-stochastic polynucleotide reassembly (GeneReassembly.TM.). Through use of the claimed methods, genetic vaccines, enzymes, and other desirable molecules can be evolved towards desirable properties. For example, vaccine vectors can be obtained that exhibit increased efficacy for use as genetic vaccines. Vectors obtained by using the methods can have, for example, enhanced antigen expression, increased uptake into a cell, increased stability in a cell, ability to tailor an immune response, and the like. This invention provides methods of obtaining novel enzymes that have optimized physical &/or biological properties. Furthermore, this invention provides methods of obtaining a variety of novel biologically active molecules, in the fields of antibiotics, pharmacotherapeutics, and transgenic traits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing an immunomodulatory polynucleotide that has an optimized modulatory effect on an immune response, or encodes a polypeptide that has an optimized modulatory effect on an immune response, the method comprising creating a library of non-stochastically generated progeny polynucleotides from a parental polynucleotide set, thereby providing an immunomodulatory polynucleotide. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the library of non-stochastically generated progeny polynucleotides is optimized by directed evolution of the parental polynucleotides, such that polypeptides encoded by the optimized progeny polynucleotides are enhanced in their modulatory effect on an immune response. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said progeny polynucleotide whose modulatory effect on an immune response is optimized by directed evolution is introduced into a genetic vaccine vector. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said method of directed evolution is selected from the group consisting of codon site-saturation mutagenesis, amino acid site-saturation mutagenesis, gene site saturation mutagenesis, introduction of mutations by non-stochastic polynucleotide reassembly methods, synthetic ligation polynucleotide reassembly, gene reassembly, oligonucleotide-directed saturation mutagenesis, in vivo reassortment of polynucleotide sequences having partial homology, naturally occurring recombination processes which reduce sequence complexity, and any combination thereof. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the method of directed evolution introduces at least at least one point mutation, addition, deletion, or chimerization, from one or more parental polynucleotides. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising screening said library for progeny polynucleotides which encode polypeptides optimized for their immunomodulatory effect as compared to the parental polynucleotides. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide that interacts with a cellular receptor. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the cellular receptor is a macrophage scavenger receptor. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the cellular receptor is selected from the group consisting of a cytokine receptor and a chemokine receptor. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the chemokine receptor is CCR6. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the polypeptide acts as an agonist or antagonist of the receptor. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the library is screened by contacting replicable genetic packages, which express the encoded polypeptides of the optimized progeny polynucleotides as fusions with proteins displayed on the surface, with a plurality of cells that display the receptor. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising identifying cells that exhibit a modulation of an immune response by the receptor. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the replicable genetic package is selected from the group consisting of a bacteriophage, a cell, a spore, and a virus. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the replicable genetic package is an M13 bacteriophage and the protein is encoded by geneIII or geneVIII. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising introducing the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide into a genetic vaccine vector and administering the vector to a subject. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the peptide or polypeptide is an agonist or antagonist of the receptor. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide is inserted into an antigen-encoding nucleotide sequence of a genetic vaccine vector. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polypeptide is introduced into a nucleotide sequence that encodes an HBsAg polypeptide. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence rich in unmethylated CpG. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide that inhibits an allergic reaction. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of interferon-.alpha., interferon-.beta., IL-10, IL-12, an antagonist of IL-4, an antagonist of IL-5, and an antagonist of IL-13. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized recombinant polynucleotide encodes an antagonist of IL-10. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the antagonist of IL-10 is soluble or defective IL-10 receptor or IL-20/MDA-7. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide encodes a co-stimulator. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the co-stimulator is B7-1 (CD80) or B7-2 (CD86). 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the screening step involves selecting variants with altered activity through CD28 or CTLA-4. 28. The method of claim 25, wherein the co-stimulator is CD1, CD40, CD154 (ligand for CD40) or CD150 (SLAM). 29. The method of claim 25, wherein the co-stimulator is a cytokine. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the cytokine is selected from the group consisting of IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-13, IL-14, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17, IL-18, GM-CSF, G-CSF, TNF-.alpha., IFN-.alpha., IFN-.gamma., and IL-20 (MDA-7). 31. The method of 30, wherein the library of non-stochastically generated polynucleotides is screened by testing the ability of cytokines encoded by the non-stochastically generated polynucleotides to activate cells which contain a receptor for the cytokine. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the cells contain a heterologous nucleic acid that encodes the receptor for the cytokine. 33. The method of 30, wherein the cytokine is interleukin-12 and screening is performed by growing mammalian cells which contain the genetic vaccine vector in a culture medium and detecting whether T cell proliferation or T cell differentiation is induced by contact with the culture medium. 34. The method of 30, wherein the cytokine is interferon-.gamma.. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the library is screened by contacting replicable genetic packages, which express the encoded polypeptides of the optimized progeny polynucleotides as fusions with proteins displayed on the surface, with a plurality of B cells that display the receptor. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising identifying phage library members that are capable of inhibiting proliferation of the B cells. 37. The method of claim 30, wherein the immune response of interest is differentiation of T cells to T.sub.H 1 cells. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein said immune response of interest is screened by contacting a population of T cells with the cytokines encoded by the members of the library of recombinant polynucleotides and identifying library members that encode a cytokine that induces the T cells to produce IL-2 and interferon-.gamma.. 39. The method of claim 29, wherein the cytokine encoded by the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide exhibits reduced immunogenicity compared to a cytokine encoded by a non-optimized polynucleotide. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the reduced immunogenicity is detected by introducing a cytokine encoded by the non-stochastically generated polynucleotide into a subject and determining whether an immune response is induced against the cytokine. 41. The method of claim 31, wherein the cell is tested for ability to costimulate an immune response. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized recombinant polynucleotide encodes a cytokine antagonist. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the cytokine antagonist is selected from the group consisting of a soluble cytokine receptor, a transmembrane cytokine receptor having a defective signal sequence, IL-10R and IL-4R. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide capable of inducing a predominantly T.sub.H 1 immune response. 45. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide capable of inducing a predominantly T.sub.H 2 immune response. 46. The method of claim 1, wherein said optimized modulatory effect on an immune response is a decrease in an unwanted modulatory effect on an immune response. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein said method generates a molecule having a decreased ability to elicit an immune response from a host recipient of said molecule. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein said recipient can be a human or an animal host. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein said method generates a molecule having decreased antigenicity with respect to at least one host recipient of said molecule. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein said recipient can be a human or an animal host. 51. The method of claim 1, wherein said optimized modulatory effect on an immune response is both a decrease in a first unwanted modulatory effect on an immune response and an increase in a second desirable modulatory effect on an immune response. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the first and the second recipient hosts can be the same or different. 53. The method of claim 51, wherein each of the first and the second recipient hosts can be human or animal. 54. The method of claim 51, wherein said method generates a molecule having both a decreased ability to elicit a first immune response from a first host recipient of said molecule and an increased ability to elicit a second immune response from a second host recipient of said molecule. 55. The method of claim 54, wherein the first and the second recipient hosts can be the same or different. 56. The method of claim 54, wherein each of the first and the second recipient hosts can be a human or animal. 57. The method of claim 51, wherein said method generates a molecule having both a first decreased antigenicity with respect to at least one host recipient of said molecule and a second decreased antigenicity with respect to at least one host recipient of said molecule. 58. The method of claim 46, wherein said first and said second modulatory effect on an immune response are evolved for respectively a first and a second module on the same multimodule vaccine vector. 59. The method of claim 58, wherein said module is selected from the group of modules consisting of an antigen coding sequence, a polyadenylation sequence, a sequence coding for a co-stimulatory molecule, a sequence coding for an inducible repressor or transactivator, a eukaryotic origin of replication, a prokaryotic origin of replication, a sequence coding for a prokaryotic marker, an enhancer, a promoter, an operator, an intron, or derivative fragments or analogs thereof, and any combination thereof. 60. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized modulatory effect on an immune response is comprised of an increase in the stability of the immunomodulatory (IM) polynucleotide or polypeptide encoded thereby. 61. The method of claim 60, wherein said method generates a molecule having an increased stability ex vivo. 62. The method of claim 60 wherein said method generates a molecule having increased stability in vivo, with respect to any means of biological elimination or degradation, upon administration to a host recipient. 63. The method of claim 1, wherein the immunomodulatory (IM) polynucleotide or polypeptide encoded thereby has an optimized modulatory effect on an immune response in an animal or human host recipient. 64. The method of claim 63, wherein said method generates an optimized genetic vaccine for any human and/or non-human recipients. 65. A method of providing an optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide that has a modulatory effect on an immune response said method comprising non-stochastically reassembling at least two parental template polynucleotides, each of which encodes a molecule that is involved in modulating an immune response, thereby providing a library of non-stochastically generated polynucleotides. 66. The method of claim 65, wherein the first and second parental templates differ from each other in two or more nucleotides. 67. The method of claim 65, further comprising screening the library to identify at least one optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide that exhibits through the encoded molecule an enhanced ability to modulate an immune response in comparison to a parental polynucleotide from which the library was created. 68. The method of claim 65, wherein an optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide is subjected to at least one further round of non-stochastic reassembly with at least one additional polynucleotide to produce additional working libraries of recombinant polynucleotides. 69. The method of claim 68, wherein said additional working libraries are screened to identify at least one further optimized non-stochastically generated polynucleotide which encodes a polypeptide that has been optimized for its immunomodulatory effect when compared to the parental polynucleotide from which the library was created. 70. A method of providing an optimized polynucleotide that encodes an accessory molecule that improves the transport or presentation of antigens by a cell, said method comprising creating a library of non-stochastically generated polynucleotides by subjecting to optimization by non-stochastic directed evolution a parental polynucleotide set in which is encoded all or part of the accessory molecule. 71. The method of claim 70, further comprising screening the library to identify an optimized non-stochastically generated progeny polynucleotide that encodes a recombinant molecule that confers upon a cell an increased or decreased ability to transport or present an antigen on a surface of the cell as compared to an accessory molecule encoded by template polynucleotides not subjected to the non-stochastic reassembly. 72. The method of claim 70, wherein said method of directed evolution is selected from the group consisting of codon site-saturation mutagenesis, amino acid site-saturation mutagenesis, gene site saturation mutagenesis, introduction of mutations by non-stochastic polynucleotide reassembly methods, synthetic ligation polynucleotide reassembly, gene reassembly, oligonucleotide-directed saturation mutagenesis, in vivo reassortment of polynucleotide sequences having partial homology, naturally occurring recombination processes which reduce sequence complexity, and any combination thereof. 73. The method of claim 70, wherein said method generates an optimized molecule for any human and/or non-human recipients. 74. The method of claim 70, further comprising forming a library of vectors by introducing the library of non-stochastically generated polynucleotides into a genetic vaccine vector that encodes an antigen. 75. The method of claim 74, wherein the library of vectors is introduced into mammalian cells. 76. The method of claim 75, wherein said cells that exhibit increased or decreased immunogenicity to the antigen are identified. 77. The method of claim 70, wherein the accessory molecule comprises a proteasome or a TAP polypeptide. 78. The method of claim 70, wherein the accessory molecule comprises a cytotoxic T-cell inducing sequence. 79. The method of claim 78, wherein the cytotoxic T-cell inducing sequence is obtained from a hepatitis B surface antigen. 80. The method of claim 70, wherein the accessory molecule comprises an immunogenic agonist sequence. 81. A method of providing an immunomodulatory polynucleotide that has an optimized expression in a recombinant expression host, said method comprising creating a library of non-stochastically generated progeny polynucleotides from a parental polynucleotide set, thereby providing an immunomodulatory polynucleotide. 82. The method of claim 81, wherein the library of non-stochastically generated polynucleotides is optimized by directed evolution. 83. The method of claim 82, wherein said method of directed evolution is selected from the group consisting of codon site-saturation mutagenesis, amino acid site-saturation mutagenesis, gene site saturation mutagenesis, introduction of mutations by non-stochastic polynucleotide reassembly methods, synthetic ligation polynucleotide reassembly, gene reassembly, oligonucleotide-directed saturation mutagenesis, in vivo reassortment of polynucleotide sequences having partial homology, naturally occurring recombination processes which reduce sequence complexity, and any combination thereof. 84. The method of claim 82, further comprising screening a library of non-stochastically generated progeny polynucleotides to identify an optimized non-stochastically generated progeny polynucleotide that has an optimized expression in a recombinant expression host as compared to the expression of parental polynucleotides. 85. The method of claim 82, wherein the recombinant expression host is a prokaryote. 86. The method of claim 82, wherein the recombinant expression host is a eukaryote. 87. The method of claim 86, wherein the recombinant expression host is a plant. 88. The method of claim 87, wherein the recombinant expression host is a monocot or dicot. 89. A method of producing a progeny polynucleotide set by subjecting a double-stranded circular parental polynucleotide molecule to mutagenesis, said method comprising synthesizing by means of a polymerase-catalyzed amplification reaction a first progeny polynucleotide strand comprised of said first primer and a second progeny polynucleotide strand comprised of said second primer, wherein the first progeny polynucleotide strand and the second progeny polynucleotide strand form a double-stranded mutagenized circular polynucleotide product, and wherein at least one of said primers contains a non-stochastic mutagenic cassette with respect to the parental polynucleotide molecule, thereby producing a progeny polynucleotide set. 90. The method of claim 89, wherein said non-stochastic mutagenic cassette contained in said at least one primer is degenerate in nature. 91. The method of claim 90, wherein a degenerate progeny polynucleotide set is produced. 92. A method of producing a set of progeny polypeptides, in which a non-stochastic range of single amino acid substitutions is represented at each amino acid position, from a template polypeptide set, said method comprising subjecting a codon-containing template polynucleotide to polymerase-based amplification using a degenerate oligonucleotide for each codon to be mutagenized. 93. The method of claim 92, wherein said method generates from at least one to twenty different amino acids at each amino acid site along a parental polypeptide template. 94. The method of claim 92, wherein said degenerate oligonucleotides is comprised of a first homologous sequence and a degenerate trinucleotide cassette. 95. The method of claim 92, wherein said degenerate oligonucleotide is comprised of a first homologous sequence, a degenerate trinucleotide cassette, and a second homologous sequence. 96. The method of claim 92, wherein said degenerate trinucleotide cassette is comprised of a first mononucleotide cassette selected from the group consisting of: a degenerate A/C mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/G mononucleotide cassette, and a degenerate A/C/G/T mononucleotide cassette. 97. The method of claim 96, wherein said degenerate trinucleotide cassette is further comprises a second and a third mononucleotide cassette, each selected from the group consisting of: a degenerate A/C mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G/T mononucleotide cassette a degenerate A/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a non-degenerate A mononucleotide cassette, and a non-degenerate C mononucleotide cassette, a non-degenerate G mononucleotide cassette, and a non-degenerate T mononucleotide cassette. 98. The method of claim 92, where said degenerate trinucleotide cassette is selected from the group consisting of: a degenerate N,N,N trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,G/T trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,G/C trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,A/C/G trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,A/G/T trinucleotide cassette, and a degenerate N,N,C/G/T trinucleotide cassette. 99. The method of claim 92, wherein said degenerate oligonucleotide is comprised of a first homologous sequence and a plurality of trinucleotide cassettes. 100. The method of claim 99, wherein said method generates a progeny polypeptide having a plurality of concurrent single amino acid changes, at each amino acid site, with respect to a parental polvpeptide template. 101. The method of claim 9, wherein each of said degenerate trinucleotide cassettes is comprised of a first mononucleotide cassette selected from the group consisting of: a degenerate A/C mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/G mononucleotide cassette, and a degenerate A/C/G/T mononucleotide cassette. 102. The method of claim 101, wherein each of said degenerate trinucleotide cassettes further comprises a second and third mononucleotide cassette, each selected from the group consisting of: a degenerate A/C mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate C/G/T mononucleotide cassette a degenerate A/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/T mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/G mononucleotide cassette, a degenerate A/C/G/T mononucleotide cassette, a non-degenerate A mononucleotide cassette, a non-degenerate C mononucleotide cassette, a non-degenerate G mononucleotide cassette, and a non-degenerate T mononucleotide cassette. 103. The method of claim 99, where said degenerate trinucleotide cassette is selected from the group consisting of: a degenerate N,N,N trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,G/T trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,G/C trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,A/C/G trinucleotide cassette, a degenerate N,N,A/G/T trinucleotide cassette, and a degenerate N,N,C/G/T trinucleotide cassette. 104. The method of claim 92, wherein said degenerate oligonucleotide is comprised of a first homologous sequence, and a plurality of trinucleotide cassettes, and a second homologous sequence. 105. The method of claim 92, further comprising screening the progeny polypeptides to identify those that display a desirable change with respect to at least one molecular property as compared with its parental polypeptide. 