A disk drive has discrete, modular mechanical and electrical devices. The mechanical device includes a casing to which is mounted a drive motor, disks, and an actuator that is driven by a voice coil motor. The actuator supports transducers for interacting with the disks. The electrical device is attached to a backplane and provides various control and data communication functions for the mechanical device with a host computer. In addition, each of the mechanical and electrical components has a mating connector for detachably interfacing with each other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage system, comprising: a backplane adapted to interface with a processor; an electrical device for a data storage assembly electrically interconnected with the backplane and having a first connector; a mechanical device for the data storage assembly having a second connector for detachably coupling with the first connector, and wherein the electrical device provides power to and control of the mechanical device when the mechanical device is coupled thereto; an auxiliary data storage assembly having an auxiliary electrical device for coupling with the mechanical device when the mechanical device is detached from said electrical device such that the mechanical device is a data shuttle between the data storage assembly and the auxiliary data storage assembly; and wherein the auxiliary data storage assembly is selected from the group consisting of a digital camera a camcorder, and a tape recorder. 2. The data storage system of claim 1 wherein the mechanical device includes an actuator and a storage device each movably mounted to a casing, wherein the actuator has a transducer for reading data from and writing data to the storage device. 3. The data storage system of claim 1 wherein the electrical device includes a controller and memory. 4. The data storage system of claim 1, further comprising a drive motor mounted to one of the electrical device and the mechanical device. 5. A disk drive assembly for a disk drive library, comprising: a backplane adapted to interface with a host computer; an electrical device for the disk drive assembly electrically interconnected with the backplane, the electrical device having a first connector, a controller, and memory; a mechanical device for the disk drive assembly having a second connector for detachably coupling with the first connector internally within the disk drive library, wherein the mechanical device utilizes an actuator and a disk that are each movably mounted to a casing such that the actuator has a transducer for reading data from and writing data to the disk; a drive motor mounted to one of the electrical device and the mechanical device for rotating the disk; an external electrical device interconnected with the backplane, wherein the mechanical device may be manually coupled to the external electrical device for data interchange external to the disk drive library; and wherein the electrical device provides power to and control of the mechanical device when the mechanical device is coupled thereto. 6. A disk drive library, comprising: a host computer; a backplane for interfacing with the host computer; a plurality of electrical devices electrically interconnected with the backplane, each of the electrical devices having a first connector, a controller, and memory; a plurality of mechanical devices, each having a second connector for detachably coupling with the first connector, wherein each of the mechanical devices utilizes an actuator and disks that are movably mounted to a casing such that the actuator has transducers for reading data from and writing data to the disks; a picking mechanism for manipulating the mechanical devices relative to the electrical devices internally within the disk drive library; and wherein an operational hard disk drive assembly is formed when one of the mechanical devices is coupled to one of the electrical devices internally within the disk drive library. 7. The disk drive library of claim 6, further comprising a drive motor mounted to one of the electrical device and the mechanical device of each of the operational hard disk drive assemblies for rotating the disks. 8. The disk drive library of claim 6 wherein a ratio of mechanical devices to electrical devices exceeds two-to-one. 9. The disk drive library of claim 6, further comprising an external input/output port having another electrical device interconnected with the backplane, wherein one of the mechanical devices may be manually coupled to said another electrical device for data interchange external to the disk drive library. 10. The disk drive library of claim 6 wherein the picking mechanism can also replace the electrical devices. 