A system for processing a workpiece includes a base having a bowl or recess for holding a liquid. A process reactor or head holds a workpiece between an upper rotor and a lower rotor. A head lifter lowers the head holding the workpiece into contact with the liquid. The head spins the workpiece during or after contact with the liquid. The upper and lower rotors have side openings for loading and unloading a workpiece into the head. The rotors are axially moveable to align the side openings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a head having a first rotor and a second rotor around the first rotor within a head housing, with the second rotor having an open central area, and with the first rotor engageable with the second rotor to hold a workpiece between them; and the second rotor moveable from a first position where it is adjacent to the first rotor, to a second position where the second rotor is spaced apart from the first rotor. 2. The machine of claim 1 with the second rotor and first rotor each having a chamber access opening, and with the access openings offset from each other, when the second rotor is in the first position, and with the access openings at least partially aligned with each other when the second rotor is in the second position. 3. The machine of claim 1 further comprising at least one actuator in the head for moving the second rotor from the first position to the second position. 4. The machine of claim 1 further comprising a support arm attached to the head and to a head lifter, for lifting and lowering the head. 5. The machine of claim 4 further comprising a pivot motor for pivoting the head on the support arm, from a head up position to a head down position. 6. The machine of claim 4 further comprising a base having basin, with the head lifter positioned relative to the had and base to lower at least part of the second rotor of the head into the basin. 7. The machine of claim 6 further including a sonic energy source associated with the basin. 8. The machine of claim 6 wherein the base is attached to the head lifter. 9. The machine of claim 1 further comprising an inlet in at least one of the first and second rotors. 10. The machine of claim 1 further comprising means for locking the first rotor to the second rotor. 11. The machine of claim 1 further comprising a spin motor in the head attached to at least one of the first rotor and second rotor. 12. A machine of claim 1 further comprising a bellows attached to the first rotor and the second rotor. 13. A reactor for processing a workpiece, comprising: a reactor head housing; a first rotor rotatably mounted within the reactor head housing; a second rotor rotatable with the first rotor; rotor shift means for moving the second rotor from a first position, where the first and second rotors are adjacent to each other, to a second position, where the first and second rotors are spaced apart; and liquid applying means, separate from the reactor head, for applying liquid to a down facing surface of a workpiece supported by the first and second rotors. 14. A system for processing a workpiece comprising: a head lifter; a head attached to the head lifter and movable from a head up to a head down position; a first rotor in the head having at least one workpiece support; a base having a bowl for containing a liquid, and with the head movable by the head lifter from a first position vertically above the bowl, to a second position where the at least one workpiece support is at least partially positioned in the bowl. 15. A reactor for processing a workpiece comprising: a first rotor having a generally circular sidewall and a first access opening in the first sidewall; a second rotor engageable with the first rotor, and having a generally circular second sidewall, and a second access opening in the second sidewall; and an actuator linked to at least one of the first and second rotors, for moving the first rotor from a first position, where the first and second access openings are spaced apart, to a second position where the first and second access openings are at lest partially aligned, to allow a workpiece to move through them. 16. The reactor of claim 15 further comprising a rotor housing containing at least one rotor actuator attached to the first rotor, for moving the first rotor into the first and second positions. 17. A machine for processing a workpiece, comprising: a head lifter; a head support on the head lifter; a process head attached to the head support; a process head actuator connected to the process head, for pivoting the process head about a generally horizontal axis; a base vertically aligned under the process head; a liquid applicator in the base for holding a bath of liquid; a first rotor on the process head and having a first rotor access opening; a second rotor on the process head and having a second rotor access opening moveable to engage and spin with the first rotor and moveable at least partially aligned with the first access opening with the second rotor access opening. 18. The machine of claim 17 wherein the liquid applicator comprises at least one spray nozzle. 19. The machine of claim 18 wherein the spray nozzle is positioned to spray a fluid vertically upwardly. 20. The machine of claim 19 wherein the spray nozzle is positioned on an axis of rotation of the second rotor. 21. The machine of claim 17 wherein the liquid applicator comprises a bowl for holding a bath of liquid. 22. The machine of claim 17 wherein the liquid applicator comprises a swing arm having at least one spray nozzle. 23. The machine of claim 17 wherein the liquid applicator comprises a liquid outlet of a liquid supply line. 24. A method for processing a workpiece comprising the steps of: moving the workpiece horizontally into a process head; inverting the process head; lowering the process head down towards a bath of liquid, to contact at least one surface of the workpiece with the liquid; lifting the process head up away from the bath of liquid, to remove the workpiece from the liquid; and spinning the workpiece. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein moving the workpiece step further comprises the step of moving a second rotor relative to a first rotor on the process head, to align openings in the second and first rotors, and then moving the workpiece horizontally, through the openings. 26. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an upper plate and a lower ring engageable onto an upper surface and a lower surface or a workpiece, respectively, with the upper plate forming an upper processing chamber over the upper surface of the workpiece; an upper inlet extending through the upper plate for providing a fluid to the upper surface of the workpiece; at least one fluid outlet in the upper processing chamber for removal of fluid from the processing chamber, by centrifugal force generated by rotation of the workpiece. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 where the upper plate and lower ring are supported on a process head, and where the lower ring is displaceable in a direction parallel to a rotation axis of the lower ring. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 where the upper plate is fixed in position relative to the process head. 29. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a head lifter attached to the process head, and base having a liquid applicator for applying a liquid to a lower surface of the workpiece, and with the process head moveable via the head lifter towards and away from the base. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising means for inverting the process head. 31. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the upper plate has a curved upper plate sidewall with a plate access opening through it, and wherein the lower ring has a curved lower ring sidewall with a ring access opening through it, and where the upper plate and lower ring are moveable to align the plate access opening with the ring access opening. 32. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the lower ring is positioned around the upper plate. 33. The apparatus of claim 26 where the lower ring has an open central area under a lower surface of the workpiece. 34. The apparatus of claim 26 further comprising means for applying a liquid to a lower surface of the workpiece. 35. The apparatus of claim 26 with the upper processing chamber is formed with an interstitial region between an upper surface of the workpiece and the upper plate, to closely confine processing fluids introduced into the upper processing chamber around the upper surface of workpiece. 