A toy figure includes a lower torso and supporting legs together with a supplemental angled support. An upper torso and weapons backpack joined thereto is pivotally supported upon the lower torso and is pivoted in response to activation of a bi-directional motor and gear drive mechanism. The backpack supports a plurality of projectile launchers and simulated machine gun units which are pivotally moveable between a stored or closed configuration and a forwardly directed launch or firing configuration. A second motor operated within the upper torso rotates a plurality of cam which in turn engage various latch mechanisms for release of the spring-driven projectile launchers to fully deploy the weapons in their firing positions and to initiate projectile launch. A pair of infrared sensors within the weapons backpack respond to commands received from a remote controller worn on the user's wrist.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A toy figure comprising: a toy figure body; a weapons pack supported by said body; a remote control receiver and controller supported by said body; a plurality of projectile launchers each pivotally supported upon said weapons pack and each having a spring-driven launcher mechanism and a trigger element and each projectile launcher moveable between a folded position and a launching position; a plurality of springs coupled to said projectile launchers urging said projectile launchers toward said launching positions; a plurality of releasable latches coupled to said projectile launchers for restraining said projectile launchers in said folded positions against the forces of said springs; a plurality of projectiles each spring-loaded into one of said projectile launchers; release means, responsive to said remote control receiver and controller, for releasing said latches allowing said projectile launchers to pivot to said launching positions; trigger means, responsive to said remote control receiver and controller, for activating said trigger elements to launch said projectiles; and a remote control transmitter having means for producing a command signal directed toward said remote control receiver and controller, said remote control transmitter command signal operative to cause said remote control receiver and controller to activate said release means and said trigger means. 2. The toy figure set forth in claim 1 wherein said toy figure body includes a lower torso and an upper torso pivotably supported thereon and means for pivoting said upper torso. 3. The toy figure set forth in claim 2 further including torso pivoting means, responsive to said remote control receiver and controller, for pivoting said upper torso and wherein said remote control transmitter includes means for producing a command signal operative to cause said remote control receiver and controller to activate said torso pivoting means. 4. The toy figure set forth in claim 3 wherein said remote control transmitter includes an action button for activating said release means and said trigger means. 5. The toy figure set forth in claim 4 wherein said remote control transmitter includes a left button and a right button for activating said torso pivoting means to cause it to pivot said upper torso in either direction. 6. A toy figure comprising; a toy figure body having supporting legs, a torso and an associated weapons backpack; a first pair of projectile launchers pivotably supported by said weapons backpack moveable between a forwardly directed launch position and a folded position, said first pair of projectile launchers having a first pair of springs urging said first pair of projectile launchers toward said launching positions and a first pair of latches restraining said first pair of projectile launchers in said folded positions; a first pair of projectiles constructed to be launched by said first pair of projectile launchers; a remote control receiver and controller operative in response to a remote control command signal to release said first pair of latches and to trigger the launch of said first pair of projectiles from said first pair of projectile launchers; and a remote control transmitter for producing a remote control command signal. 7. The toy figure set forth in claim 6 further including: an upper launcher assembly pivotably supported by said weapons backpack between a launching position and a retracted position, having a second pair of projectile launchers, a spring surging said upper launcher assembly toward said launching position and an upper launcher assembly latch restraining said upper launcher assembly in said retracted position; and a second pair of projectiles constructed to be launched from said second pair of projectile launchers, said remote control receiver and controller being operative in response to a remote control command signal to release said upper launcher assembly and to trigger the launch of said second pair of projectiles. 