A method and apparatus for batch processing of semiconductor wafers in a furnace advantageously allow for wafers to be supported for processing at very high temperatures (e.g., about 1350.degree. C.). Each wafer is supported during processing by a wafer support with full perimeter support, such as a ring or plate. The wafers, on their supports, are removable and vertically spaced apart in a wafer support holder. A transfer station is provided wherein, during loading, a wafer is placed on a wafer support and, during unloading, the wafer is separated from the wafer support. A FOUP (Front Opening Unified Pod) is adapted to accommodate a plurality of wafer supports and to accommodate the transfer station. The wafer support, with a wafer supported on it, is transferred from the transfer station to a wafer support holder for processing.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for semiconductor processing, comprising: receiving a wafer and a wafer support at a transfer station; seating the wafer onto the wafer support at the transfer stations, wherein the wafer support supports an entire perimeter of the wafer when the wafer is seated on the wafer support; transporting the wafer support away from the transfer station into a process chamber, wherein the wafer is seated upon the wafer support during transporting; and subjecting the wafer to a semiconductor fabrication process in the process chamber, wherein the wafer is seated on the wafer support during the semiconductor fabrication process. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the process chamber comprises a furnace. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein transporting the wafer support into a process chamber comprises loading the wafer and wafer support together into a wafer support holder. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein transporting the wafer support further comprises placing the wafer support holder into the process chamber after loading the wafer and wafer support together into the wafer support holder. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the wafer support holder is a wafer boat holding more than 25 wafers. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein seating a wafer onto the wafer support comprises passing a plurality of support pins through a plurality of holes in the wafer support. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein passing comprises lowering the wafer support without moving the plurality of support pins. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein seating the wafer onto the wafer support further comprises placing the wafer on the plurality of support pins. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein seating the wafer onto the wafer support further comprises lifting the wafer support to contact the wafer, wherein lifting comprises elevating the wafer support and the wafer above the plurality of support pins. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein lifting the wafer support to contact the wafer and placing the wafer onto the wafer support comprises employing a single robot end effector. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising, after subjecting the wafer to the semiconductor fabrication process, unloading the wafer from the wafer support by lowering the wafer support away from the wafer. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the wafer is supported by the plurality of wafer support pins during unloading. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein seating the wafer onto the wafer support is conducted within a cassette, the cassette have a plurality of storage slots. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein a shape of the wafer support from a top view is a ring. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer support comprises a plate. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the wafer support comprises a plurality of through holes and a raised annular ring, the ring forming a wall that surrounds the wafer when the wafer is seated upon the wafer support. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein subjecting comprises heating the wafer to greater than about 1000.degree. C. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein subjecting comprises heating the wafer to greater than about 1300.degree. C. 19. A method for semiconductor processing, comprising: placing a wafer on a removable ring-shaped or disk-shaped wafer support; subsequently transporting the wafer support, while the wafer is seated upon the wafer support, into a wafer boat, the wafer boat comprising one or more accommodations for wafer supports; and subjecting the wafer to a semiconductor fabrication process while the wafer is seated upon the wafer support in the wafer boat. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein subjecting the wafer to a semiconductor process comprises loading the wafer boat into a process chamber after transporting the wafer and wafer support into the wafer boat. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein placing the wafer on the wafer support comprises positioning the wafer support at a first level in a transfer station and positioning the wafer at a second level in the transfer station, the second level above the first level. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein placing the wafer on the wafer support comprises lifting the wafer support to contact the wafer. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein a plurality of support pins pass through a plurality of holes in the wafer support and support the wafer at the second level. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising unloading the wafer from the wafer support in the transfer station after subjecting the wafer to the semiconductor fabrication process. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein unloading comprises moving the wafer support to the first level and moving the wafer to the second level. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein positioning the wafer support at a first level, positioning the wafer at a second level, placing the wafer on the wafer support and unloading the wafer are performed using a single robot end effector. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein the transfer station is in a cassette. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the cassette comprises a closeable door. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein exterior surfaces of the cassette conform to a SEMI standard for a front-opening unified pod. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein the cassette comprises a plurality of wafer support receiving slots, each slot comprising a protrusion, the protrusion locking a wafer support occupying the slot by extending into a hole in the wafer support. 31. A system for processing a substrate, comprising: a plurality of substrate supports for supporting a plurality of substrates, wherein a substrate support supports an entire perimeter of a substrate; a substrate support holder configured to hold the plurality of substrate supports, wherein the plurality of substrate supports are removable from the substrate support holder while a substrate is seated upon the substrate support; a reactor configured to accommodate the substrate support holder during substrate processing; and a substrate loading station separate from the substrate support holder, the substrate loading station configured to load a substrate onto a substrate support. 32. The system of claim 31, further comprising a robot provided with an end effector configured for transferring a substrate support with a substrate seated on it from the substrate loading station to the substrate support holder. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein the substrate support is a plate capable of supporting an entire bottom surface of a wafer. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein a shape of the substrate support from a top view is a ring. 35. The system of claim 31, wherein the substrate supports comprise quartz. 36. The system of claim 31, wherein the substrate supports comprise silicon carbide. 37. The system of claim 31, wherein a front opening unified pod houses the substrate loading station. 38. The system of claim 37, further comprising a front opening unified pod for providing substrate supports to the substrate support holder. 39. The system of claim 31, wherein the reactor is a batch processing furnace. 40. The system of claim 31, wherein the substrate holder is a wafer boat supporting more than 25 wafer supports. 41. A semiconductor wafer cassette, wherein interior of the wafer cassette comprises: a wafer loading station, the wafer loading station configured for receiving a wafer and a disk-shaped or ring-shaped wafer support and for loading the wafer onto the wafer support. 42. The cassette of claim 41, wherein the interior of the cassette comprises a plurality of wafer support storage slots, wherein each slot comprises a plurality of laterally extending surfaces for supporting a wafer support. 43. The cassette of claim 42, wherein each slot further comprises a protrusion, the protrusion extending vertically from and having sides sloping down to one of the plurality of laterally extending surfaces. 44. The cassette of claim 43, wherein the protrusion extends into a hole in the wafer support and orients a plurality of holes in the wafer support for alignment with a plurality of support pins in the wafer loading station without rotation of the wafer support. 45. The cassette of claim 43, wherein the plurality of slots numbers 23. 46. The cassette of claim 45, wherein the wafer loading station is located underneath the plurality of slots. 47. The cassette of claim 42, wherein the wafer support is sized and shaped to support a wafer. 48. The cassette of claim 47, wherein the wafer has diameter of 300 mm. 49. The cassette of claim 41, wherein the wafer loading station comprises a plurality of support pins configured to extend through a plurality of holes in the wafer support. 50. The cassette of claim 49, wherein each of the plurality of support pins includes a downwardly flared base, wherein the base narrows into an upper extension. 51. The cassette of claim 50, wherein the flared base has a conical shape. 52. The cassette of claim 50, wherein the plurality of holes in the wafer support are sized and positioned to allow passage of the plurality of support pins through the wafer support, wherein the wafer support rests upon a plurality of flare bases while the upper extensions extend through the holes and above the wafer support. 53. The cassette of claim 52, wherein the upper extension of each of the plurality of support pins has a height sufficient to allow an end effector to extend between the wafer support resting on the plurality of flared bases and a wafer resting on the plurality of upper extensions, wherein the end effector extends without touching either the wafer support or the wafer. 54. The cassette of claim 41, wherein exterior surfaces of the cassette conform to a SEMI standard for a front-opening unified pod. 55. The cassette of claim 41, wherein the wafer loading station is configured to receive the wafer support at a first level and to receive the wafer at a second level, the second level above the first level. 56. The cassette of claim 55, wherein the wafer loading station is configured to directly support the wafer at the second level while maintaining the wafer vertically separated from the wafer support. 