A robotic loading cell for plastic utensils is characterized by a synchronized supply conveyor and gripping mechanism for packaging individual utensils from an integrally molded group or rack of utensils. The gripping device is operable to remove a plurality of individually stacked utensils from the integral racks. A robotic transfer mechanism connected with the gripping device transfers the utensils to a packaging assembly. Operation of the conveyor, gripper and robotic transfer device is coordinated through a programmed controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for loading utensils, comprising (a) a first conveyor for delivering at least one group of molded utensils which are interconnected via a runner, (b) a gripper device for gripping and removing at least one utensil from said group of utensils, said gripper device further comprising at least one pair of fingers which arc laterally displaceable between a gripping position where said fingers are moved toward each other to grip a utensil and a release position where said fingers are moved away from each other to release said utensil, said gripper device being rotatable about an axis to twist said utensil and sever it from said runner; and (c) a robotic transfer mechanism connected with said gripper device to laterally displace said gripper device is displaced laterally relative to said group of utensils to successively sever adjacent utensils from said runner for each loading cycle, and to transfer the utensil from said first conveyor to a packaging assembly. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said first conveyor includes a clamping mechanism to clamp said molded runner against said first conveyor. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said first conveyor further includes a drive assembly for intermittently driving said conveyor to deliver said molded utensils from a molding device to said gripper device. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein said first conveyor further includes two pairs of drive chains connected with said drive assembly, said drive chains including prongs for aligning a plurality of groups of molded utensils in stacked relation, whereby said gripper device simultaneously removes a plurality of stacked utensils from a stacked plurality of groups. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said first conveyor further includes a plurality of ejectors for removing said runners from said first conveyor after all of said utensils have been separated from said runners. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, and further comprising a second conveyor arranged beneath said ejectors of said first conveyor for transporting said runners therefrom. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, and further comprising a controller connected with said first conveyor, said gripper device and said robotic transfer mechanism for synchronizing the operation thereof. 8. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said gripper device comprises two pair of fingers for simultaneously gripping and severing two stacks of utensils. 