Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, at least one characteristic of defects on at least two sides of a specimen. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least one characteristic of defects on at least two sides of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the stage is further configured to move during use, and wherein the specimen comprises a wafer; a measurement device coupled to the stage, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward a front side an a back side of the specimen during movement of the stage; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen during the movement of the stage and to detect energy propagating from the back side of the specimen during the movement of the stage, wherein the measurement device is configure to generate one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen and the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine a firs characteristic of defects on the front side of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use and a second characteristic of macro defects on the back side of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising an additional measurement device coupled to the stage, wherein the processor is further configured to determine an additional property of the specimen from one or more output signals generated by the additional measurement device. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally during use. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move rotatably during use. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side comprises dark field light propagating along multiple dark field paths. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side comprises dark field light propagating along multiple dark field paths and bright field light propagating along a bright field path. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen comprises dark field light propagating along a dark field path. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen comprises bright field light propagating along a bright field path. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen comprises dark field light propagating along a dark field path and bright field light propagating along a bright field path. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises non-optical components, and wherein the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen is responsive to a non-optical characteristic of the specimen. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises non-optical components, and wherein the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen is responsive to a non-optical characteristic of the specimen. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the specimen further comprises a plurality of dies having repeatable pattern features, and wherein the processor is further configured to compare output signals responsive to the detected energy from at least two of the plurality of dies to determine the first characteristic. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a presence, a location, a number, and a type of the defects on the from side of the specimen. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the second characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a presence, a location, a number, and a type of the defects on the back side of the specimen. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the defects on the front side of the specimen comprise macro defects or micro defects. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the defects on the front side of the specimen comprise macro defects and micro defects. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured determine the first and second characteristics substantially simultaneously during use. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct energy to multiple locations on the front side of the specimen substantially simultaneously during the movement of the stage, and wherein the detection system is futher configured to detect energy propagating along multiple paths from the multiple locations on the front side of the specimen substantially simultaneously during the movement of the stage such that the first characteristic of defects on the front side of the specimen at the multiple locations can be determined substantially simultaneously. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct energy to multiple locations on the back side of the specimen substantially simultaneously during the movement of the stage, and wherein the detection system is further configured to detect energy propagating from the multiple locations on the back side of the specimen substantially simultaneously during the movement of the stage such that the second characteristic of macro defects on the back side of the specimen at the multiple locations can be determined substantially simultaneously. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured determine a third characteristic of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the third characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool selected from the group consisting of a lithography tool, an atomic layer deposition tool, a cleaning tool and an etch tool. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is disposed within the process tool. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is arranged laterally proximate to the process tool. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to the stage during use. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the system to the process tool during use. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen to a process chamber of the process tool during use. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the one characteristic while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of the stage. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the stage is angled with respect to an upper surface of the support device. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool is selected from the group consisting of a lithography tool, an etch tool, ion implanter, a chemical-mechanical polishing tool, a deposition tool, a thermal tool, a cleaning tool, and plating tool. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a laser clearing tool. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a shock wave particle removal apparatus. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool. 36. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is disposed within the process tool. 37. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the process tool. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of the process tool. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to support the specimen during a process step. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, wherein the stage is further configured support the specimen during a process step, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the first and second characteristics during the process step. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, wherein the stage is further configured support the specimen during a process step, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing the process step during use, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the process step. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, wherein the stage is further configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein the processor is further couple to the process tool and is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the first and second characteristic using an in situ control technique during use. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein the system is further configured to determine the first and second characteristics as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare at least one of the first and second characteristics and characteristics of a plurality of specimens during use. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further connfigured to compare at least one of the first and second characteristic to a predetemined range for the at least one characteristic during use. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the at least one characteristic is outside of the predetermined range during use. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the measurement device in response to at least one of first and second characteristics during use. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to at least one of the first and second characteristics using a feedback control technique during use. 50. The of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to at least one of the first and second characteristics using a feedforward control technique during use. 51. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the database comprises the first and second characteristics. 52. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the measurement device using the database during use. 53. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor the one or more output signals generated by measurement device using the database during use. 54. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the first and second characteristics, and wherein the database further comprises first and second characteristic of a plurality of specimens. 55. The system of claim 54, wherein the first and second characteristics of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 56. The system of claim 54, wherein the first and second characteristics of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the process is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor one or more output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 57. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 58. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configure to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 59. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the one characteristic of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least the one characteristic of the specimen at the more than one position the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of at least the one characteristic. 60. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to process tool. 61. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the first and second characteristics using a feedback control technique during use. 62. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the first and second characteristics using a feedforward control technique during use. 63. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool during use. 64. The system of claim 63, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between at least one of the first and second characteristics and at least one of the monitored parameters during use. 65. The system of claim 64, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of at least one of the one or more instruments in response to the relationship during use. 66. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to plurality of measurement devices, and wherein at least one of the plurality of measurement devices is coupled to at least one of a plurality of process tools. 67. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the measurement device and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 68. The system of claim 67, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the first characteristic and the second characteristic during use. 69. The system of claim 67, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the first characteristic and the second characteristic during use. 70. A method for determining at least one characteristic of defects on at least two sides of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; moving the stage; directing energy toward a front side and a back side of the specimen using the illumination system during movement of the stage; detecting energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen using the detection system during the movement of the stage; detecting energy propagating from the back side of the specimen using the detect on system during the movement of the stage; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen and the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first characteristic of detects on the front side of the specimen and a second characteristic of macro defects on the back side of the specimen. 71. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least one characteristic of defects on at least two sides of the specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a measurement device, comprising: controlling the measurement device, wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system, wherein the measurement device is coupled to a stage, and wherein the stage is configured to move during use, comprising: controlling the illumination system to direct energy toward a front side and a back side of the specimen during movement of the stage, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer; controlling the detection system to detect energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen during the movement of the stage and to detect energy propagating from the back side of the specimen during the movement of the stage; and generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen and the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first characteristic of detects on the front side of the specimen and to determine a second characteristic of macro defects on the back side of the specimen. 72. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: forming a portion of the semiconductor device upon a specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer; disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; moving the stage; directing energy toward a front side and a back side of the specimen using the illumination system during movement of the stage; detecting energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen using the detection system during the movement of the stage; detecting energy propagating from the back side of the specimen using the detection system during the movement of the stage; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen and the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first characteristic of detects on the front side of the specimen a second characteristic of macro defects on the back side of the specimen. 73. A system configured to determine at least one characteristic of defects on at least two sides of a specimen during use comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the stage is further configured to move during use, and wherein the specimen comprises a wafer; a measurement device coupled to the stage, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward a front side and a back side of the specimen during movement of the stage; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen during the movement of the stage and to detect energy propagating from the back side of the specimen during the movement of the stage, wherein the measurement device is configure to generate one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen and the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen; a local processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more otuput signals and to determine a first characteristic of defects on the front side of the specimen from the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use and a second characteristic of macro defects on the back side of the specimen from the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 74. A method for determining at least one characteristic of defects on at least two sides of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; moving the stage; directing energy toward a front side and a back side of the specimen using the illumination system during movement of the stage; detecting energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen using the detection system during the movement of the stage; detecting energy propagating from the back side of the specimen using the detect on system during the movement of the stage; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy propagating along multiple paths from the front side of the specimen and the detected energy propagating from the back side of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first characteristic of defects on the front side of the specimen and a second characteristic of macro defects on the back sid of the specimen, comprising: at least partially processing the one or more output signals using a local pocessor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the measurement device; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signal using the remote controller computer. 