A method for scaling a media storage library is provided, wherein the library comprises a plurality of media storage cells and at least one media picker robot. The method comprises connecting a new physical component to a section of the library. Examples of new components include additional robots, storage cell arrays, media players, as well as connecting a second adjacent library by means of a pass-through mechanism. Control software integrates this new physical component into the function of the library by auditing the content and function of the new component. During the connection and functional integration of the new component, the rest of the library continues its current operations. The method may further comprise defining at least one work zone within the library, wherein robots do not enter the work zone but continue to operate in other areas of the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for scaling a media storage library, wherein the library comprises a plurality of media storage cells and at least one media picker robot, the method comprising: connecting a new physical component to a section of the library, wherein tracks of the library and the new physical component are joined to form joined tracks, and wherein the joined tracks allow the at least one media picker robot access to each media storage cell in the library and the new physical component; and integrating the new physical component into the function of the library by auditing the content and function of the new physical component; wherein the library maintains current operation during the connection and functional integration of the new physical component. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the new physical component is a picker robot. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the new physical component is a storage cell array. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the new physical component is a media player. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the new physical component is a second storage library. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the storage libraries are connected by means of a pass-through mechanism that passes media cartridges between picker robots in the respective libraries. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: defining at least one work zone within the library, wherein the at least one media picker robot stays out of the work zone, while continuing to operate in oilier areas of the library. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the defined work zone is associated with an open service door in an enclosure surrounding the library components. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one media picker robot in the media storage library moves along the jointed tracks. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the media storage library further comprises a plurality of picker robots. 11. A scalable media storage library system, comprising: a plurality of media storage cells within a library; and a set of tracks, where the set of tracks allow at least one media picker robot to access each media storage cell in the plurality of media storage cells; wherein the plurality of media storage cells and the set of tracks allow for connection of a new physical component to a section of the library; and wherein tracks of the library and the new physical component are joined to form joined tracks in which the joined tracks allow the at least one media picker robot access to the new physical component in addition to the plurality of media storage cell; wherein the new physical component is integrated into the function of the library by auditing the content and function of the new physical component; and wherein the library maintains current operation during the connection and functional integration of the new physical component. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the new physical component is a storage cell array. 13. The system according to claim 11, wherein the new physical component is a media player. 14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the new physical component is a second storage library. 15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the storage libraries are connected by means of a pass-through mechanism that passes media cartridges between picker robots in the respective libraries. 16. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: at least one work zone within the library, wherein the at least one picker robot stays out of the work zone, while continuing to operate in other areas of the library. 17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the work zone is associated with an open service door in an enclosure surrounding the library components. 18. The system according to claim 11, wherein the at least one picker robot in the media storage library moves along the joined tracks. 