A rapid thermal processor, having a process chamber, including a stable heat source in the form of a heatable mass. Heat is provided to the heatable mass using a series of heating devices. The temperature of the heatable mass establishes the temperature of a semiconductor wafer placed in contact or in close proximity to the heatable mass. To reduce thermal gradients, the heatable mass can be included in an insulative compartment made of an insulating material, such as opaque quartz and the like. The top of the insulative compartment can include an access portion to allow the semiconductor wafer to be placed on the heatable mass disposed therein. During processing, the wafer may be further exposed to a high intensity radiation energy source for a short duration of time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor processing system comprising: a process chamber defining an internal cavity; an insulative compartment disposed within said internal cavity having an access portion defined through a top surface to provide access to a heatable mass disposed within said insulative compartment and below said top surface, said insulative compartment; and a wafer support mechanism configured to receive a semiconductor wafer and move said semiconductor wafer from between a first position where said semiconductor wafer is proximate to said heatable mass and within said insulative compartment and a second position where said semiconductor wafer is distant from said beatable mass and outside of said insulative compartment. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said process chamber comprises a cover, wherein said cover is actively cooled and wherein said second position positions said semiconductor wafer between about 1 mm to about 100 mm distance from said actively cooled cover. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said process chamber comprises a cover, wherein said cover comprises a clear quartz window. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said heatable mass is heated using a plurality of heating elements positioned within said insulative compartment. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said plurality of heating elements are each enclosed within a quartz tube. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said wafer support mechanism comprises at least three wafer support pins, said wafer support pins being slidably moveable through said beatable mass. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said insulative compartment comprises walls of opaque quartz. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said wafer support mechanism moves said semiconductor wafer from between said first position where said semiconductor wafer is between about 0.05 mm and about 100 mm distance from said heatable mass within said insulative compartment and said second position where said semiconductor wafer is between about 0.1 mm and 100 mm distance from said heatable mass outside of said insulative compartment. 9. A wafer processing system comprising: a process chamber including walls and a window defining an internal cavity; an insulative compartment including a heatable mass disposed within said internal cavity, a wafer support mechanism configured to receive a semiconductor wafer and move said semiconductor wafer from between a first position where said semiconductor wafer is proximate to said heatable mass within said insulative compartment and a second position where said semiconductor wafer is distant from said heatable mass outside of said insulative compartment; and a radiation energy source disposed proximate to said window to allow radiation energy to enter said internal cavity and impinge on a surface of said semiconductor wafer. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said window comprises a clear quartz window. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein said heatable mass is heated using a plurality of heating elements positioned within said insulative compartment. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said plurality of heating elements are each enclosed within a quartz tube. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein said wafer support mechanism comprises at least three wafer support pins, said wafer support pins being slidably moveable through said heatable mass. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein said insulative compartment walls comprise walls of opaque quartz. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein said wafer support mechanism moves said semiconductor wafer from between said first position where said semiconductor wafer is between about 0.05 mm and about 100 mm distance from said heatable mass within said insulative compartment and said second position where said semiconductor wafer is between about 0.05 mm and 100 mm distance from said heatable mass outside of said insulative compartment. 16. The system of claim 9, wherein said radiation energy source can be configured to be flashed to substantially instantaneously raise the temperature of said semiconductor wafer. 17. A method for wafer processing comprising: providing a process chamber defining an internal cavity, and an insulative compartment disposed within said internal cavity; moving a semiconductor wafer from between a first position where said semiconductor wafer is proximate to a heatable mass disposed within said insulative compartment and a second position where said semiconductor wafer is distant from said heatable mass outside of said insulative compartment; and cooling said semiconductor wafer by moving said semiconductor wafer a distance from said heatable mass to a position outside of said insulative compartment and within said process chamber. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said heating further comprises radiating said semiconductor wafer with radiation energy. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said radiating comprises flashing said semiconductor wafer with high intensity light energy. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein said cooling further comprises moving said semiconductor wafer said distance from said heatable mass to said position outside of said insulative compartment, within said process chamber and proximate to an actively cooled cover of said process chamber. 