A laser-based cleaning system for cleaning generator and turbine parts. In one aspect, the invention includes a system for cleaning blades of a turbine rotor assembly, comprising: a laser positioned remotely from the turbine rotor assembly for generating a laser signal; a laser workhead that receives the laser signal via an optical fiber, wherein the laser workhead is positionable proximate a blade in the turbine rotor assembly and can deliver a laser beam onto a surface of the blade to cause a cleaning of the blade; and a vacuum system for vacuuming debris created by the cleaning.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser-based cleaning system for cleaning blades of a turbine rotor assembly, comprising: a laser positioned remotely from the turbine rotor assembly for generating a laser signal; a laser workhead that receives the laser signal via an optical fiber, wherein the laser workhead is positionable proximate a blade in the turbine rotor assembly and can deliver a laser beam onto a surface of the blade to cause a cleaning of the blade, wherein the workhead is contained in a robot that automatically moves the workhead in a generally radial direction along the blade; and a vacuum system for vacuuming debris created by the cleaning, wherein the vacuum system is positioned on a side of the turbine rotor assembly opposite of the laser workhead. 2. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the laser is selected from the group consisting of a YAG laser and a CO.sub.2 laser. 3. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the workhead is manipulated to account for surface contours according to a surface mapping. 4. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the workhead is manipulated in between blades of the turbine rotor assembly. 5. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the workhead has a depth dimension that is less than a minimum spacing between adjacent blades. 6. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the workhead is angularly repositioned to reach overlapped portions of the blade. 7. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the turbine rotor assembly is mounted in a lower housing. 8. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 7, wherein the robot is mounted onto a structure selected from the group consisting of the lower housing and the turbine deck. 9. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the laser workhead is contained within a handheld device. 10. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein laser generates a laser beam of approximately 0.5-5 kilowatts. 11. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the laser ablates 1-2 mils of debris from the blade according to a strip rate given by one square foot per minute per kilowatt. 12. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, wherein the workhead can be positioned to clean a dovetail section of the turbine rotor assembly. 13. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 1, further comprising a non-destructive evaluation system integrated into the robot that examines each blade after it is cleaned. 14. A method for laser-based cleaning of blades in a turbine rotor assembly, comprising: positioning a laser remotely from the turbine rotor assembly; mounting a robot proximate the turbine rotor assembly; providing within the robot a laser workhead that receives a laser signal from the laser via an optical fiber; positioning the workhead proximate a first turbine blade such that the workhead can deliver a laser beam onto the surface of the first blade; robotically moving the workhead along the first blade in a preprogrammed manner while the laser beam ablates the surface of first blade to effectuate a cleaning of the first blade; and vacuuming debris caused by the ablation. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the turbine rotor assembly is mounted in a lower housing. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the robot is mounted onto a structure selected from the group consisting of the lower housing and a turbine deck. 17. The method of claim 14, comprising the further steps of: rotating the turbine rotor assembly after a first set of turbine blades is cleaned; positioning the workhead proximate a second set of turbine blades; and effectuating a cleaning of the second set of turbine blades in the same manner as the first set of turbine blades. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the laser beam is generated with a power of approximately 0.5-5 kilowatts. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein each blade is cleaned according to a strip rate in which each 1-2 mil thickness of debris is ablated at a rate of one square foot per minute per kilowatt. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of vacuuming is done from a side of the turbine rotor assembly opposite of the workhead. 21. The method of claim 14, comprising the further step of using the robot to perform a non-destructive evaluation of each turbine blade. 22. A laser-based cleaning system for cleaning a rotor bore within a turbine shaft, comprising: a laser positioned remotely from the turbine shaft for generating a laser signal; a robot capable of traversing the rotor bore and directing a laser workhead at predetermined positions along the rotor bore surface; an optical fiber that delivers a laser signal from the laser to the laser workhead, wherein the laser workhead can deliver a laser beam onto rotor bore surface to cause a cleaning; and a vacuum system for vacuuming debris created by the cleaning. 23. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 22, wherein the laser comprises a power of approximately 0.5-5 kilowatts. 24. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 22, wherein the rotor bore is cleaned according to a strip rate in which each 1-2 mil thickness of debris is ablated at a rate of one square foot per minute per kilowatt. 25. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 22, wherein the robot includes a non-destructive evaluation system for examining the rotor bore during the cleaning operation. 26. A laser-based cleaning system for cleaning power generation components, comprising: a laser workhead that receives the laser signal via an optical fiber, wherein the laser workhead is positionable proximate a component and can deliver a laser beam onto a surface the component to cause a cleaning, at least one of the laser power and ablation time being adjustable in proportion to an attack angle of the laser workhead; a laser positioned remotely from the laser workhead for generating a laser signal over the optical fiber; and a vacuum system for vacuuming debris created by the cleaning. 27. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 26, wherein the component is cleaned according to a strip rate in which each 1-2 mil thickness of debris is ablated at a rate of one square foot per minute per kilowatt. 28. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 27, wherein the laser is selected from the group consisting of a YAG laser and a CO.sub.2 laser. 29. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 27, wherein the laser comprises a power of approximately 0.5-5 kilowatts. 30. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 26, wherein the workhead comprises a focusing lens, a scanner, and an output mirror. 31. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 26, wherein the workhead is positioned by a robotic controller that includes a surface mapping of the component. 32. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 26, wherein the robotic controller further positions a non-destructive evaluation system for examining the component after the cleaning operation. 33. The laser-based cleaning system of claim 26, wherein the power generation components are selected from the group consisting of turbine parts and generator parts. 