The invention features methods of making devices, or "platens", having a high-density array of through-holes, as well as methods of cleaning and refurbishing the surfaces of the platens. The invention further features methods of making high-density arrays of chemical, biochemical, and biological compounds, having many advantages over conventional, lower-density arrays. The invention includes methods by which many physical, chemical or biological transformations can be implemented in serial or in parallel within each addressable through-hole of the devices. Additionally, the invention includes methods of analyzing the contents of the array, including assaying of physical properties of the samples.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of maintaining the viability of a cell of an aerobic organism in a platen having a plurality of through-holes, the method comprising: a) providing a cell of an aerobic organism in an aqueous medium; b) loading the cell of the aerobic organism in the aqueous medium into at least some of the through-holes of the platen, wherein the aqueous medium is held in the through-holes by surface tension, and c) submerging the platen into a gas permeable liquid, wherein the gas permeable liquid facilitates oxygen transport to the cell and wherein the gas permeable liquid is immiscible with the aqueous medium, thereby maintaining the viability of the cell. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising assaying one or more physical properties of the cell of the aerobic organism. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas permeable liquid is a fluorocarbon or a silicone polymer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell is attached to a wall of a through-hole. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the aqueous media is held in the through-holes by capillary action. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell is attached to or contained within a porous medium inside the through-hole. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the aqueous medium is a cell culture medium. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell is an embryo. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell is a CaCo-2 cell. 10. The method of claim 3, wherein the gas permeable liquid is perfluorodecalin or perfluorooctylbromide. 