A sensing head for providing bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data determinative of a position and an orientation of a target object is provided. The sensing head combines both a bi-dimensional and a tri-dimensional sensors. General illumination is associated to the bi-dimensional sensor to allow the acquisition of bi-dimensional data representative of the target object. A stripe-shaped laser light output is projected and diffused on the target object and is sensed by the tri-dimensional sensor. Tri-dimensional data is thus acquired. By proper processing of the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data, the position and orientation of the target object may be determined without moving the sensor head and without knowing its position and orientation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensing head for providing bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data determinative of a position, dimensions and an orientation of a target object extending in a sensing area, comprising: a general illumination light source directed towards the sensing area; a bi-dimensional sensor directed towards said sensing area and cooperating with the general illumination light source for acquiring the bi-dimensional data upon illumination of the target object by said general illumination light source, said bi-dimensional data being representative of an image of the target object along a plane; a laser light source; an optical arrangement optically coupled to the laser light source for controllable projection of a light output generated by the laser light source along distinct lines extending in said plane, the optical arrangement having an optical element through which the image of the target object acquired by the bi-dimensional sensor and the light output from the laser light source pass in a same reference axis; a tri-dimensional sensor directed towards said sensing area for acquiring the tri-dimensional data by sensing diffusion of the light output on the target object, said tri-dimensional data being representative of tri-dimensional coordinates of said target object along said lines; a collector circuit connected to the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional sensors for receiving the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data therefrom and having an output for transmitting the same after a single 2D acquisition and a single 3D scan; and a casing enclosing said laser light source, optical arrangement, bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional sensors and collector circuit, the casing having a bottom opening through which the light output and a view line of each sensor pass, the general illumination light source being disposed next to the bottom opening, whereby the sensing head forms a unitary unit adapted to provide all the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data without any displacement of the sensing head. 2. The sensing head according to claim 1, wherein the general illumination light source comprises an arrangement of LEDs facing the sensing area. 3. The sensing head according to claim 2, wherein said LEDs generate red colored general illumination. 4. The sensing head according to claim 1, wherein said bi-dimensional sensor comprises a CMOS optical sensor. 5. The sensing head according to claim 1, wherein said laser light source comprises a laser stripe diode assembly, the light output generated by said laser light source being stripe-shaped. 6. The sensing head according to claim 5, wherein the optical arrangement comprises a controllable rotating mirror across a path of the light output, said mirror having distinct angular positions, each of which corresponding to a projection of the light output along one of the distinct lines extending in the plane. 7. The sensing head according to claim 6, wherein the optical arrangement further comprises a galvanometer connected to the collector circuit and coupled to the rotating mirror for setting said rotating mirror in each of said angular positions. 8. The sensing head according to claim 1, wherein said tri-dimensional sensor comprises a CMOS optical sensor. 9. The sensing head according to claim 1, wherein the optical element comprises a prism extending between the bi-dimensional sensor and the sensing area. 10. The sensing head according to claim 1, wherein the casing is provided with a fastening member for attachment to a robot arm. 11. An apparatus for determining a position, dimensions and an orientation of a target object extending in a sensing area, comprising: a sensing head for providing bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data determinative of said position, dimensions and orientation of the target object, comprising: a general illumination light source directed towards the sensing area; a bi-dimensional sensor directed towards said sensing area and cooperating with the general illumination light source for acquiring the bi-dimensional data upon illumination of the target object by said general illumination light source, said bi-dimensional data being representative of an image of the target object along a plane; a laser light source; an optical arrangement optically coupled to the laser light source for controllable projection of a light output generated by the laser light source along distinct lines extending in said plane, the optical arrangement having an optical element through which the image of the target object acquired by the bi-dimensional sensor and the light output from the laser light source pass in a same reference axis; a tri-dimensional sensor directed towards said sensing area for acquiring the tri-dimensional data by sensing diffusion of the light output on the target object, said tri-dimensional data being representative of tri-dimensional coordinates of said target object along said lines; and a collector circuit connected to the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional sensors for receiving the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data therefrom and having an output for transmitting the same after a single 2D acquisition and a single 3D scan; control means for controlling the light sources and the sensors; and processing means for processing said bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data received from the collector circuit to determine therefrom the position, dimensions and orientation of the target object, whereby the sensing head forms a unitary unit adapted to provide all the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data without any displacement of the sensing head. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the control means and the processing means are combined into a control unit comprising a frame grabber having an input receiving the bi-dimensional data from the bi-dimensional sensor, a 3D processor board having control outputs connected to the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional sensors and an input receiving the tri-dimensional data from the tri-dimensional sensor, a scanner and illumination control board having control outputs connected to the light sources and an input receiving positional information from the optical arrangement, a processor, and a bus structure interconnecting the processor with the frame grabber, 3D processor board and illumination control board. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the scanner and illumination control board and the processor have interfaces for robot communication. 14. A sensing head for providing bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data determinative of a position, dimensions and an orientation of a target object extending in a sensing area, comprising: an arrangement of LEDs directed towards the sensing area for general illumination of the target object; a first CMOS sensor directed towards said sensing area and cooperating with the general illumination light source for acquiring the bi-dimensional data upon illumination of the target object by said general illumination light source, said bi-dimensional data being representative of an image of the target object along a plane; a laser light source; an optical arrangement optically coupled to the laser light source for controllable projection of a light output generated by the laser light source along a line extending in said plane, the optical arrangement having a prism through which the image of the target object acquired by the first multi-dimensional sensor and the light output from the laser light source pass in a same reference axis; a second CMOS sensor directed towards said sensing area for acquiring the tri-dimensional data by sensing diffusion of the light output on the target object, said tri-dimensional data being representative of tri-dimensional coordinates of said target object along said line determinable by triangulation; a collector circuit connected to the first and second CMOS sensors for receiving the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data therefrom and having an output for transmitting the same after a single 2D acquisition and a single 3D scan; and a casing enclosing said arrangement of LEDs, optical arrangement, first and second CMOS sensors and collector circuit, the casing having a bottom opening through which the light output and a view line of each sensor pass, the arrangement of LEDs being disposed next to the bottom opening, whereby the sensing head forms a unitary unit adapted to provide all the bi-dimensional and tri-dimensional data without any displacement of the sensing head. 