A laser cutting or welding device, the device having a laser head (10) and a robot (35), wherein the laser head is attached to the robot (35). The laser head (10) has a housing (12), a focal lens (26) disposed within the housing and a light source (18) in optical communication with the focal lens (26). The housing (12) has a nozzle with a tip (90), the tip having an exit port (17). The laser head (10) has means (33) for adjusting a light path of a light beam directed from the light source onto a focal optic to center a focusing beam formed by the focal optic coaxial with the tip. In one aspect hereof, the laser device has a crash avoidance system.
Claims Having thus described the above several embodiments of the present invention, what is claimed is: 1. In as laser device of the type having a laser head and a robot, the laser head being mounted to the robot, the laser head having a housing, a focal lens disposed within the housing, a light source in optical communication with the focal lens, a nozzle disposed within the housing, and a nozzle tip disposed within the nozzle having a sensor, the laser device having means for multiple operating modes wherein the improvement comprises: means for determining a distance the laser head is operating at above a surface of a workpiece; means for determining the position of the laser head at either an extended limit, a retracted limit, or an intermediate position above a workpiece; means for stopping the operation of the laser device to avoid damage to the laser device in response to the means for determining when the head is at either the retracted limit, the extended limit, or at the intermediate distance above a surface of a workpiece; means for sensing the operating mode of the laser device to determine a method of crash detection comprising the laser head and the nozzle tip sensor cooperating to signal the means for stopping; and means for selecting and communicating the method of crash detection to the means for stopping. 2. The laser device of claim 1, wherein the operating mode of the laser device is selected from the group of parked, teach, run or hold. 3. The laser device of claim 1, wherein the means for stopping is operable to stop the laser device when the laser head is positioned between 3 mm to about 6 mm above the surface of the workpiece when the operating mode of the laser device is in the parked mode. 4. The laser device of claim 1, wherein the means for determining the distance the laser head is operating above a surface of a workpiece further comprises means for capacitive sensing. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the housing comprises a first body portion and a second body portion, the first body portion being telescopable with the second body portion, the first body portion being translatable with the second body portion along a common axis. 6. The device of claim 5, further comprising means for determining the position of the telescopable housing at either an extended limit, a retracted limit, or an intermediate position between the limits. 7. A method of operating a robotic laser material processing device having a robotic member and a laser head, while avoiding defective laser machining of a workpiece caused by an undesirable laser beam impinging on the workpiece of damage caused by a crash between the device and an object including the workpiece, a fixture, or other structure in a path of the device, the method comprising: activating, through the use of robotic control program, a first mode of operation so as to control the device during a first time interval when a surface of a workpiece is not being tracked in relation to changing topography of the workpiece, the first mode of operation having an associated crash protection tolerance defined by a predetermined minimum distance between the object and a location of the device; measuring a distance of the head relative to a surface of an object to obtain a distance measurement; comparing the distance measurement with the predetermined minimum distance; generating a signal to communicate a crash condition whenever the distance measurement is less than the predetermined minimum; detecting, during the operation of the unit in the mode, a position of the laser head relative to a travel limit; and generating, based upon the detected position relative to a limit, a signal to communicating a crash condition so that the operation of the unit is stopped if the laser head is within a predetermined proximity to the limit. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the activated mode is one of a plurality of modes, each mode having a crash protection tolerance. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least two modes have distinct-crash protection tolerances. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the tolerance for a mode includes zero distance between an object and a location relative to the head, whereby a surface of the device may contact an object during operation in the mode without generation of a signal to communicating a crash, and wherein operation in the mode continues without undesirable damage. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the activated mode is a run, parked, teach, or hold mode. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the mode of operation is a hold mode, and further comprising processing the workpiece with a laser beam during the hold mode of operation. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein processing the workpiece comprises forming a hole, cutting an edge, or welding. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein the head comprises a telescopic housing, and further comprising a step of controllably extending or retracting the head during the mode of operation. 15. The method of claim 3, wherein the laser head comprises a housing, a nozzle disposed within the housing, and a nozzle tip disposed within the nozzle having a sensor, and wherein: (a) the step of measuring comprises detecting a signal from the nozzle tip sensor; and (b) a step of generating signal comprises communicating a crash condition to a controller based on cooperation of the nozzle tip sensor and head. 16. The method of claim 7, wherein the laser head comprises a housing having first and second body portions, the first body portion being telescopic with the second body portion, the first body portion being translatable within the second body portion, and wherein a step of determining further comprises detecting a signal representative of an extended limit, retracted limit, or intermediate position of the telescopic housing between the limits. 17. The method of claim 7, wherein the mode is a parked mode and the predetermined minimum distance is in a range of about 3-6 millimeters. 18. The method of claim 7, wherein the predetermined minimum distance is in a range of about 0-0.1 millimeters. 19. The method of claim 7, wherein the predetermined minimum distance is in the range of about 0-0.5 millimeters. 20. The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of: activating a run mode of operation to track the surface of the workpiece in relation to changing topography and to process the workpiece with a laser beam, the run mode operation to occur in a second time interval separate from the first time interval; detecting, during operation of the unit in the run mode, a position of the laser head relative to a travel limit; and generating, based upon the detected position relative to a limit, a signal to communicate a crash condition to a controller so that the operation of the unit is stopped if the laser head is within a predetermined proximity to a limit. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein tracking the workpiece is carried out with the distance sensor used in the step of measuring. 