An adaptable, servo-control system for force/position actuation generally includes an electric linear actuator and a controller. The controller interfaces with the electric linear actuator and with a number of I/O signals that are independent from the electric linear actuator. The controller interface to the independent I/O signals is transparent to the manner in which the I/O signals are produced. Rather the controller simply looks for the status of the I/O that is preferably received into the controller by hard-wiring or field bus I/O messaging such as from a industrial robot or programmable logic controller. The controller utilizes the I/O signals to select a number of parameters to generate a motion profile for closed loop-controlled, position actuation or force actuation of the electric linear actuator. The adaptable servo-control system is particularly suited to resistance weld systems wherein the electric linear actuator can replace the pneumatic actuator providing position and force actuation of the weld tip of the welding gun.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An adaptable servo-control system for position and/or force actuation, comprising: an electric linear actuator; and a controller, wherein said controller interfaces with said electric linear actuator and with a plurality of I/O signals that are independent from said electric linear actuator, wherein said I/O signals have been pre-established for control of a pneumatic actuator, and wherein said controller utilizes said I/O signals to provide closed loop-controlled actuation of said electric linear actuator. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of I/O signals are mapped by said controller to a plurality of parameters to define a motion profile of said electric linear actuator. 3. An adaptable servo-control system for position and/or force actuation of a welding tip in a welding system, comprising: an electric linear actuator; and a controller, wherein said controller interfaces with said electric linear actuator and with a plurality of I/O signals that are independent from said electric linear actuator, wherein said I/O signals have been pre-established for control of a pneumatic actuator, and wherein said controller utilizes said I/O signals to provide position and/or force actuation of said welding tip through closed loop-controlled actuation of said electric linear actuator. 4. The system of claim 3, said plurality of I/O signals are mapped by said controller to a plurality of parameters to define a motion profile of said electric linear actuator. 