A test system has many motherboards. Each motherboard has a reverse-mounted test adaptor board that contains a test socket. A robotic arm inserts a memory module into the test socket, allowing the motherboard to execute programs to test the memory module. A test chamber surrounds the test socket. Compressed air is regulated and routed to local heaters near each motherboard. The local heaters pass the air over a resistive heating element to heat the air. The heated air is then directed into the test chamber to heat the memory module being tested. A local valve controls the air flow through the local heater. A host computer receives temperature measurements from each test chamber and adjusts the local heater and valve to maintain a desired test temperature. The motherboards can be cooled by cooling fans while the memory modules being tested are heated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parallel test system for testing memory modules at a target temperature comprising: a plurality of motherboards, each of the motherboards being a main board for a computer using memory modules as a memory; test adaptor boards, each coupled to a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, the test adaptor boards having test sockets for receiving memory modules for testing by the motherboards, each test adaptor board for electrically connecting a memory module inserted into the test socket to a motherboard attached to the test adaptor board, the motherboard using the memory module inserted into the test socket as a portion of the memory of the motherboard; a plurality of local heaters, mounted near the test adaptor boards, for heating the memory modules being tested to an elevated temperature; and a main system interface, coupled to the plurality of motherboards, for commanding the motherboards to test memory modules inserted into the test sockets and for receiving test results from the motherboards, whereby the memory modules inserted into the test sockets are locally heated to an elevated temperature. 2. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of mounting plates, each mounting plate having a motherboard attached to a first surface and a local heater attached to a second surface, each mounting plate having an opening for the test adaptor board. 3. The parallel test system of claim 2 further comprising: a plurality of test chambers, each test chamber partially surrounding a test socket to allow the local heater to heat the memory module inserted into the test socket during testing, whereby each test chamber thermally insulates the test socket. 4. The parallel test system of claim 3 wherein each local heater comprises a resistive heating element for heating air in the test chamber. 5. The parallel test system of claim 4 wherein each local heater further comprises a thermal block, attached to the test chamber to add thermal mass to limit temperature fluctuations; wherein the air flow past the resistive heating element passes through the thermal block before being directed at the memory module inserted into the test socket. 6. The parallel test system of claim 4 further comprising: a valve for controlling an air flow past the resistive heating element. 7. The parallel test system of claim 6 wherein the valve and resistive heating element are controlled by the main system interface. 8. The parallel test system of claim 4 wherein the motherboards have a component side and a solder side, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon and expansion sockets for expansion boards; wherein the test adaptor boards are mounted to the solder side of the motherboards. 9. The parallel test system of claim 8 further comprising: a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting memory modules into the test sockets. 10. The parallel test system of claim 9 further comprising: a plurality of removable covers, each removable cover for covering an opening to the test chamber during testing, but for exposing the test socket to the robotic arm after testing. 11. A memory-module tester comprising: a robotic device that moves memory modules from an input stack of untested memory modules to an output stack of tested memory modules; a host computer for controlling the robotic device; a plurality of test stations for testing memory modules that are loaded and unloaded by the robotic device, each test station comprising: a test socket mounted on a test adaptor board, the test socket for receiving a memory module inserted by the robotic device; a motherboard for a personal computer, the motherboard executing a test program in response to commands from the host computer, the test program testing the memory module inserted into the test socket; a mounting board for supporting the motherboard from a first surface, the mounting board having an opening to allow the robotic device to reach the test socket from a second surface opposite the first surface of the mounting board; and a heating device, mounted on the first surface of the mounting board, for heating the memory module inserted into the test socket; wherein the mounting board thermally isolates the motherboard from the heating device, whereby memory modules tested by the motherboards are heated by the heating device on the mounting board while the motherboards are thermally isolated. 12. The memory-module tester of claim 11 further comprising: a regulator, coupled to a compressed-air supply line, for regulating an air flow; a distribution line for distributing an air flow to the heating devices in the plurality of test stations; wherein at each test station a portion of the air flow from the distribution line passes the heating device and is heated before being blown onto the memory module inserted into the test socket, whereby the memory modules are heated by a locally-heated hot air flow. 13. A multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester comprising: main system means for controlling testing of memory modules on multiple motherboards; motherboard means, controlled by the main system means, for executing a test program on a memory module inserted into a test socket means; test adaptor board means, mounted on the motherboard means, for electrically connecting the test socket means to a memory bus means on the motherboard; local temperature means, near each the test adaptor board means, for establishing and maintaining the memory module inserted into the test socket means at a target test temperature while the motherboard means executes the test program on the memory module inserted into the test socket means; wherein the multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester has a plurality of the motherboard means, each motherboard means having an attached test adaptor board means with a test socket means and a local temperature means, each motherboard means for executing the test program on a different memory module in parallel with other motherboard means, whereby parallel testing of memory modules at the target test temperature is performed. 14. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 13 further comprising: robotic means, controlled by the main system means, for grasping a memory module and inserting the memory module into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the memory module from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the memory module to an output means for storing tested memory modules when the motherboard means indicates to the main system means that the memory module has passed the test program, whereby the memory modules are moved by the robotic means. 15. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 14 wherein the local temperature means comprises: air inlet means for receiving an air flow; local heater means, coupled to the air inlet means, for heating the air flow; directional means, coupled to the local heater means, for directing the air flow after heating to the memory module inserted into the test socket means. 16. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 15 wherein the local temperature means further comprises: valve means, coupled to the air inlet means, for controlling the air flow through the local heater means. 17. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 16 wherein the local temperature means further comprises: temperature sensing means for sensing a temperature near the test socket means; wherein the main system means includes program means for reading the temperature sensed by the temperature sensing means, and for controlling the local heater means to adjust the temperature to the target test temperature, whereby temperature of each test socket means is controlled by the main system means. 18. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 17 further comprising: cooling means, isolated from the local temperature means, for cooling the motherboard means, whereby motherboards are cooled but memory modules are heated. 19. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 18 further comprising: wall means for thermally isolating the test socket means; cover means, controlled by the program means, for covering an opening of the wall means during testing, but for exposing the opening after testing to allow the robotic means to remove the memory module inserted into the test socket means, whereby the test socket means is thermally isolated and an opening for the robotic means is covered during testing. 20. The multiple-motherboard temperature-controlled memory tester of claim 13 wherein the local temperature means is mounted onto a first surface of a plate while the motherboard means is mounted to a second surface of the plate. 