A benchtop processing system utilizing a wafer receptacle for wafer processing is provided. The wafer receptacle has a plurality of sloped projections capable of receiving a plurality of wafers having different diameter sizes. The wafer receptacle is transported to a processing chamber from a wafer reception module which can also be used as a cooling module. Advantageously, the benchtop processing system and method of the present invention allows for efficient and compact wafer processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A benchtop processing system, comprising: a wafer reception module; a wafer receptacle having a plurality of sloped projections capable of receiving one to a plurality of wafers; and a processing chamber operably coupled to said wafer reception module, said wafer receptacle being movable from a first position within said wafer reception module to a second position within said processing chamber. 2. The processing system of claim 1, further comprising a transport assembly capable of moving said wafer receptacle between said first position and said second position. 3. The processing system of claim 2, wherein said transport assembly comprises a linear slide mechanism. 4. The processing system of claim 2, wherein said transport assembly comprises a gate structure that is capable of thermally isolating said processing chamber when processing wafers. 5. The processing system of claim 2, wherein said transport assembly comprises a robot arm having an end effector including said wafer receptacle. 6. The processing system of claim 1, wherein said wafer receptacle includes a bottom slot for receiving a wafer to diffuse heat during processing. 7. The processing system of claim 1, wherein said wafer receptacle has at least three sloped projections. 8. The processing system of claim 1, wherein said wafer receptacle is capable of receiving wafers having a diameter between about 50 mm and about 125 mm. 9. The processing system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of sloped projections have a linear sloped surface having a slope from a bottom of said wafer receptacle to a top of said wafer receptacle between about 5 degrees and about 30 degrees. 10. The processing system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of sloped projections have a curved sloped surface. 11. The processing system of claim 1, further comprising a gate valve operably coupled to said processing chamber, said gate valve capable of opening and closing to allow said wafer receptacle to move between said first position and said second position. 12. A wafer receptacle, comprising: a plurality of sloped projections capable of receiving a plurality of semiconductor wafers having different diameters. 13. The wafer receptacle of claim 12, wherein said plurality of sloped projections comprise at least three sloped projections. 14. The wafer receptacle of claim 12, wherein said plurality of sloped projections is capable of receiving wafers having a diameter between about 50 mm and about 125 mm. 15. The wafer receptacle of claim 12, wherein said plurality of sloped projections have a linear sloped surface having a slope from a bottom of said wafer receptacle to a top of said wafer receptacle between about 5 degrees and about 30 degrees. 16. The wafer receptacle of claim 12, wherein said plurality of sloped projections have a curved sloped surface. 17. The wafer receptacle of claim 12, wherein said plurality of sloped projections comprise quartz. 18. A method of processing wafers, comprising: providing a benchtop processing system including: a wafer receptacle having a plurality of sloped projections capable of receiving a plurality of wafers; a wafer reception module housing said wafer receptacle in a first position; and a processing chamber operably coupled to said wafer reception module, said processing chamber defining an internal space for receiving said wafer receptacle when said wafer receptacle is in a second position; placing a plurality of wafers on said wafer receptacle; moving said wafer receptacle from said first position to said second position inside said processing chamber; processing said wafers; and moving said wafer receptacle from said second position to said first position. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said plurality of wafers are placed on said wafer receptacle in order of diameter size beginning with the wafer having the smallest diameter. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising cooling said wafers on said wafer receptacle in a wafer reception module after processing. 