The present invention relates to the generation and use of a cellular array or a cellular array in combination with other genome-registered arrays (an array of arrays) for the determination of gene function and/or perturbation mode of action. Each cellular array consists of a number of microbial strains. Each strain comprises one reporter gene fusion made up of a gene or gene fragment operably linked to a reporter gene. Each gene or gene fragment has been "registered" or mapped to a specific location in the genome of the organism. The genome-registered collection of the invention may be used to determine alterations in gene expression under a variety of conditions. Such collections are amenable to rapid assay and may be used to confirm, correct or augment data generated from DNA micro array technology.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining gene function comprising: (a) providing a microorganism comprising genomic DNA; (b) assembling at least one first genome-wide scale, genome-registered collection from the genomic DNA of the microorganism of (a) comprising a collection of reporter gene fusions each fusion comprising a reporter gene operably linked to a genomic DNA fragment, and assembling at least one second genome-wide scale, genome-registered collection from the genomic DNA of the microorganism of (a) which is not a collection of reporter gene fusions; (c) perturbing each collection from (b) with at least one perturbation; (d) measuring the response of each collection to each perturbation of (c); and (e) analyzing the results of the at least one perturbation to identify patterns of similarities and differences between the at least two genome-registered collections resulting in the determination of gene function. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the perturbation is the result the presence of chemicals. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the microorganism is selected from the group consisting of prokaryotes and fungi. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein the prokaryote is an enteric bacteria. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein the enteric bacteria are selected from the group consisting of Escherichia and Salmonella. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the reporter gene is selected from the group consisting of luxCDABE, lacZ, gfp, cat, galK, inaZ, luc, luxAB, bgaB, nptII, phoA, uidA and xylE. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein at least 50% of the sequences of the genomic DNA are known. 