This invention provides electromagnetic chips and electromagnetic biochips having arrays of individually addressable micro-electromagnetic units, as well as methods of utilizing these chips for directed manipulation of micro-particles and micro-structures such as biomolecules and chemical reagents. An electromagnetic biochip comprises an individually addressable micro-electromagnetic unit chip with ligand molecules immobilized on its surface. By controlling the electromagnetic field at each unit of the array and combining this control with magnetic modification of biomolecules, these chips can be used for directed manipulation, synthesis and release of biomolecules in order to increase sensitivity of biochemical or chemical analysis and reduce assay time. Other advantages with these chips include minimized damages to biological molecules and increased reproducibility of assay results.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for directing reactions between ligand molecules and target molecules, comprising the steps of: providing a unit having a plurality of individually addressable micro-electromagneticcores; forming a functional layer for immobilizing ligand molecules above said cores; providing modified ligand molecules capable of being positioned by magnetic fields; disposing a solution containing said modified ligand molecules on said functional layer; creating a pattern of immobilized ligand molecules by selectively energizing said cores to form magnetic fields which position said modified ligand molecules at predetermined locations where said ligand molecules become immobilized on said functional layer; providing modified target molecules able to be positioned by magnetic fields; disposing a solution containing said modified target molecules on said pattern of immobilized ligand molecules; and selectively energizing said cores to form magnetic fields which position said modified target molecules in juxtaposition to predetermined immobilized ligand molecules thereby directing a reaction between said target molecules and said ligand molecules. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of detecting said reaction between said target molecules and said ligand molecules. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of detecting said reaction comprises optical detection. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said functional layer is selected from the group consisting of a hydrophilic molecular monolayer, a hydrophilic molecular monolayer with functional groups, a hydrophobic molecular monolayer, a hydrophobic molecular monolayer with functional groups, a hydrophilic membrane, a hydrophilic membrane with functional groups, a hydrophobic membrane, a hydrophobic membrane with functional groups, a hydrophilic gel, a hydrophilic gel with functional groups, a hydrophobic gel, a hydrophobic gel with functional groups, a porous material, a porous material with functional groups, a non-porous material and a non-porous material with functional groups. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said functional groups are selected from the group consisting of aldehydes, carbodiimides, succinimydyl esters, antibodies, receptors, and lectins. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified ligand molecules are ligand molecules linked to magnetic material. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said ligand molecules are linked to magnetic material by a cleavable linker. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said cleavable linker is cleavable by light, heat, enzymatic activity or chemical reaction. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein said ligand molecules are linked to magnetic material by a covalent bond. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein said ligand molecules are linked to magnetic material by biological affinity to a molecule coupled to said magnetic material. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said biological affinity is selected from the group consisting of antibody-antigen affinity, lectin-hapten affinity and receptor-ligand affinity. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified target molecules are target molecules linked to magnetic material. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said target molecules are linked to magnetic material by a cleavable linker. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said cleavable linker is cleavable by light, heat, enzymatic activity or chemical reaction. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said target molecule is linked to magnetic material by a covalent bond. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said target molecule is linked to magnetic material by biological affinity to a molecule coupled to said magnetic material. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said biological affinity is selected from the group consisting of antibody-antigen affinity, lectin-hapten affinity and receptor-ligand affinity. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of cleaving said modified ligand molecules from a magnetic material or said modified target molecules from a magnetic material or both after the step of selectively energizing magnetic cores, wherein the cleaved modified ligands or cleaved modified target molecules are not substantially positionable by magnetic fields. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said magnetic material is removed by a magnetic field. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said magnetic material is removed by a fluid wash. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified ligand molecules are modified by mixing a solution of said ligand molecules with magnetic material, and freezing droplets of ligand molecules mixed with magnetic material to form small solid magnetic particles. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of using magnetic dispensers to position the small solid magnetic particles on at least one unit. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified ligand and said modified target molecules comprise biological molecules, chemical reagents or pharmaceutical molecules. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified ligand and said modified target molecules comprise nucleic acid molecules. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein one or both of said modified ligand and said modified target molecules comprise antibodies and antigens. 