A method and apparatus for inspecting semiconductor wafers. Specifically, an arm which is constructed to hold a wafer, is mounted on a rotational device to provide a user with the means of inspecting a wafer in any position without having to physically touch the wafer or move the wafer to another inspection station. The arm provides rotation about an axis parallel to the surface of the wafer, as well as rotation about an axis run which is perpendicular to the surface of the wafer and extends through the axial center of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for inspecting a disc-like substrate comprising a holding structure having members arranged to hold and rotate the substrate about a first axis, the holding structure being coupled to a rotatable member, the rotatable member configured to rotate the holding structure about a second axis different from the first axis. 2. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the members comprise a plurality of wedge assemblies configured to rotate the substrate about the first axis. 3. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the first axis is disposed generally perpendicular to a flat surface of the substrate and extends generally through an axial center of the substrate. 4. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the holding structure comprises two L-shaped gripping arms arranged to form a single U-shaped structure and configured to hold the substrate substantially parallel to the gripping arms. 5. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 4, wherein the U-shaped structure is configured to open and close about the perimeter of the substrate. 6. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, further comprising tensioning springs configured to permit the U-shaped structure to open and close about the perimeter of the substrate. 7. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 2, wherein the holding structure comprises three wedge assemblies, at least one wedge assembly coupled to a motor and configured to rotate the substrate about the first axis disposed generally perpendicular to a flat surface of the substrate and extending generally through an axial center of the substrate. 