A counterpulsation device that operates without the use of compressed air or pressurized gas includes at least one inflatable cuff that is adapted to be placed about a selected portion of the patient's body. A conduit connects the inflatable cuff to an air transfer device so that noncompressed air can be transferred from the air transfer device to the cuff through the conduit to inflate the cuff. The conduit also connects the cuff to the air transfer device so that air can flow through the conduit to deflate the cuff. Another conduit is coupled to the first so that the air in the system can be selectively vented into the atmosphere. A series of valves are placed on the conduit to selectively control whether air is supplied to or withdrawn from the inflatable cuff. The air moving device preferably is a cylinder having a piston that moves through the cylinder to move the air from within the cylinder through the conduit and into or out of the cuff as desired. The piston moves through the cylinder through the use of a linear servo actuator that is controlled by an appropriately programmed electronic controller so that the inflation of the cuff is timed with portions of the patient's EKG signal and peripheral plethysmographic wave.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly for administering external counterpulsation therapy to a patient, comprising: an inflatable cuff that is adapted to be placed about a selected portion of the patient's body; an air moving device comprising a cylinder and a moving member that moves in reciprocating strokes in a first and second direction respectively within said cylinder to move noncompressed air; an inflate conduit interconnecting said cuff and said air moving device that permits noncompressed air to move through said inflate conduit toward said cuff in a first direction to selectively inflate said cuff; a deflate conduit interconnecting said cuff and said air moving device that permits noncompressed air to move through said deflate conduit in a second direction to selectively deflate said cuff; an inflate valve responsive to said reciprocating movement of said moving member wherein said inflate valve selectively couples said cuff to said inflate conduit to selectively inflate said cuff during either of said reciprocating strokes of said moving member; and a deflate valve responsive to said reciprocating movement of said moving member wherein said deflate valve selectively couples said cuff to said deflate conduit to selectively deflate said cuff during either of said reciprocating strokes of said moving member. 2. The assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of said cuffs and wherein a first pair of said cuffs are adapted to be received about the patient's calves, a second pair is adapted to be received about the patient's thighs and a third cuff is adapted to be received about the patient's buttocks and wherein said cuffs are inflated in sequence from said first pair to said third cuff. 3. The assembly according to claim 1, further comprising an electronic controller, and a linear actuator which moves said moving member within said cylinder responsive to said electronic controller. 4. The assembly according to claim 3, further comprising a valve arrangement that connects said conduits and air moving device such that the noncompressed air moves in the first direction through said inflate conduit and a vacuum is created in said deflate conduit regardless of the direction of movement of said moving member within said cylinder. 5. The assembly according to claim 4, further comprising a release conduit and a valve arrangement selectively connecting said inflate conduit to atmosphere such that the noncompressed air in said inflate conduit can move through said release conduit to atmosphere. 6. The assembly according to claim 4, further comprising a release conduit in a valve arrangement selectively connecting said deflate conduit to atmosphere such that the noncompressed air in said deflate conduit can be selectively vented to atmosphere. 7. The assembly according to claim 1, further comprising an exhaust valve coupled with said conduits to selectively allow air to vent to atmosphere from said conduits. 8. The assembly according to claim 1, further comprising an electronic controller that controls said fluid moving device and a computer communicating with a plethysmograph and said electronic controller, said computer being programmable to achieve a desired counterpulsation therapy regime and being programmed to permit said moving device to operate only after an operator of said assembly completes a series of predetermined steps to initiate the desired counterpulsation therapy regime. 9. A counterpulsation therapy assembly, comprising: an inflatable cuff that is adapted to be placed about a selected portion of a patient's body; a conduit in communication with said cuff; a fluid moving device including a housing having a first port and a second port and a moving member that moves within said housing in a first direction to move noncompressed fluid out of said housing through said first port and moves within said housing in a second direction to move noncompressed fluid out of said housing through said second port; and a transient suppressor responsive to said movement of said moving member wherein said transient suppressor selectively couples said conduit to said first port when said moving member moves in said first direction and selectively couples said conduit to said second port when said moving member moves in said second direction such that the noncompressed fluid exiting from the housing moves into and at least partially through said conduit toward said cuff whenever said moving member moves within said housing; said transient suppressor having a pair of valves for controlling said fluid movement into and at least partially through said conduit toward said cuff. 10. The assembly according to claim 9, further comprising a plurality of valves including a first valve selectively connecting said cuff to said conduit allowing noncompressed fluid to move into said cuff, a second valve selectively connecting said conduit to atmosphere allowing said cuff to be vented to atmosphere through a portion of said conduit. 11. The assembly according to claim 9, wherein there are a plurality of said cuffs and wherein a first pair of said cuffs are adapted to be received about the patient's calves, a second pair is adapted to be received about the patient's thighs and a third cuff is adapted to be received about the patient's buttocks and wherein said cuffs are inflated in sequence from a most distal portion of said first pair to a most proximal portion of said third cuff. 12. The assembly according to claim 9, further comprising an electronic controller and a linear actuator that cyclically moves said moving member in the first and second directions responsive to said controller. 13. The assembly of claim 9, wherein said moving member causes noncompressed air to enter said housing through said second port when said moving member moves in said first direction and through said first port when said moving member moves in said second direction and wherein said transient suppressor includes a first and second check valve that selectively couple said conduit to said second port when said moving member moves in said first direction and to said first port when said moving member moves in said second direction, respectively. 14. The assembly of claim 9, wherein said conduit comprises an inflate conduit and further comprising a deflate conduit that is in communication with said cuff and said fluid moving device, and wherein said deflate conduit is coupled to said second port of said moving device when said moving member moves in said first direction such that the non-compressed fluid within said deflate conduit moves into said housing whenever said moving member moves within said housing. 15. The assembly of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of cuffs and a plurality of branch conduits coupled with said cuffs, respectively, and wherein a valve arrangement selectively couples each of said branch conduits to said conduit or said deflate conduit, respectively. 16. The assembly of claim 15, wherein said valve arrangement includes a plurality of first valves that selectively couple said branch conduits to said conduit, a plurality of second valves that selectively couple said branch conduits to said deflate conduit and a plurality of third valves that selectively couple said branch conduit to atmosphere. 