The present invention provides highly automated fluid delivery systems and related methods with significantly improved throughput relative to preexisting technologies. In particular, the invention relates to a fluid dispensing system that simultaneously produces multiple fluid mixtures on-the-fly in multiple multiwell plates. The invention also includes control system and machine software in addition to various systems and related methods for performing assorted downstream processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid dispensing system that comprises at least one linear array of fluid dispensers, wherein each fluid dispenser corresponds to a single well of a multiwell plate and the linear array comprises: a number of fluid dispensers that is greater than the number of wells in a line of wells of a single multiwell plate, wherein the line of wells is parallel to a longitudinal axis of the linear array; and, at least two fluid dispensers that are spaced at least a sufficient distance apart to simultaneously dispense a fluid into a well of a first multiwell plate and a corresponding well of a second multiwell plate when both plates are placed beneath the linear array of fluid dispensers. 2. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein each fluid dispenser separately dispenses selected volumes between 1 nl and 500 ml. 3. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein each of the multiwell plates comprises 6, 12, 24, 48, 96, 384, 1536, or more wells. 4. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein: the number of fluid dispensers in the linear array is at least as great as the number of wells in two lines of wells of a single multiwell plate; and the fluid dispensers are spaced an appropriate distance apart from one another to simultaneously dispense a fluid into wells of multiple multiwell plates when the plates are placed underneath the fluid dispensers. 5. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, comprising a plurality of linear arrays, each of which comprises at least two fluid dispensers that are spaced at least a sufficient distance apart to simultaneously dispense a fluid into a well of a first multiwell plate and a corresponding well of a second multiwell plate when both plates are placed beneath the array of fluid dispensers. 6. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the line of wells of the multiwell plate is a row of wells. 7. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the line of wells of the multiwell plate is a column of wells. 8. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein adjacent dispensers are spaced 144 mm, 72 mm, 36 mm, 18 mm, 9 nm, 4.5 mm, 2.25 mm or less apart from one another. 9. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein adjacent dispensers are spaced an appropriate distance apart to allow the adjacent fluid dispensers to simultaneously dispense a fluid into adjacent wells of a 96-well plate. 10. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the line of wells includes eight wells and the linear array comprises at least nine fluid dispensers. 11. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the line of wells includes twelve wells and the linear array comprises at least thirteen fluid dispensers. 12. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the linear array comprises 96 fluid dispensers. 13. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the linear array comprises at least 17 fluid dispensers. 14. The fluid dispensing system of claim 13, wherein the linear array comprises at least 25 fluid dispensers. 15. The fluid dispensing system of claim 14, wherein the linear array comprises at least 33 fluid dispensers. 16. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the number of fluid dispenser is x times the number of wells in the line of wells of a single multiwell plate and x is a whole number greater than or equal to 2. 17. The fluid dispensing system of claim 16, wherein x is selected from the group consisting of: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. 18. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein each of the fluid dispensers comprises a solenoid valve or a piezoelectric valve. 19. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, further comprising one or more cleaning devices to clean the fluid dispensers. 20. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein at least a first fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a first fluid and at least a second fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a second fluid that differs from the first fluid. 21. The fluid dispensing system of claim 20, wherein adjacent fluid dispensers dispense different fluids. 22. The fluid dispensing system of claim 20, wherein the first and second fluids are independently selected from the group consisting of: water, a stock solution, a buffer, a reagent, a solvent, a salt solution, a polymer solution, an inorganic solution, an organic solvent, and a cell suspension. 23. The fluid dispensing system of claim 22, wherein: at least a first fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains water; at least a second fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a salt solution; at least a third fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a polymer solution; and at least a fourth fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains an organic solvent. 24. The fluid dispensing system of claim 23, wherein: the salt solution comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of cacodylic acid, CHES, HEPES, citric acid, malonic acid, MES, phosphoric acid, acetic acid, and a salt thereof; the polymer solution comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of glycerol, ethylene glycol, formate, spermine, and polyethylene glycol; and the organic solvent comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of 1,2-propanediol, DMSO, methanol, dioxane, trifluoroethanol, MPD, ethanol, and isopropanol. 25. The fluid dispensing system of claim 24, wherein each of the components is contained in at least one fluid container which is connected to a fluid dispenser in the linear array. 26. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the linear array of fluid dispensers is configured so that the fluid dispensers can deliver fluid to at least three multi-well plates at the same time. 27. The fluid dispensing system of claim 26, wherein the linear array of fluid dispensers is configured so that the fluid dispensers can deliver fluid to at least four multi-well plates at the same time. 28. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the fluid dispensers comprises: (i) at least one fluid conduit in fluid communication with a fluid source; and (ii) at least one pump operably connected to the fluid conduit to convey fluid through the fluid conduit from the fluid source to the wells of the multiwell plates. 29. The fluid dispensing system of claim 28, wherein the fluid conduit composes a flexible tube. 30. The fluid dispensing system of claim 28, wherein the pump comprises a peristaltic pump or a syringe pump. 31. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, further comprising a moving element that moves the multiwell plates in a direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of the linear array of fluid dispensers. 32. The fluid dispensing system of claim 31, wherein the moving element comprises a conveyor belt. 33. The fluid dispensing system of claim 31, wherein the moving element has a length of at least n of the multiwell plates, wherein n is the number of the multiwell plates. 34. The fluid dispensing system of claim 33, wherein n is a whole number selected from the group consisting of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. 35. The fluid dispensing system of claim 31, wherein the linear array of fluid dispensers comprises a support structure that is operably connected to a drive mechanism that reversibly moves the support structure in a direction perpendicular to a direction of movement of the moving element. 36. The fluid dispensing system of claim 35, further comprising a controller that is operably connected to the fluid dispensers, the moving element, and the drive mechanism, which controller controls at least fluid dispensation from the fluid dispensers, moving element movement, and support structure movement. 37. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises system control logic which directs when fluid is dispensed from a given fluid dispenser to a well of a mutiwell plate based on a position of the multiwell plate in the system. 38. The fluid dispensing system of claim 1, further comprising one or more of: a gripper apparatus that translocates the multiwell plates between the fluid dispensing system and other systems; a fluid aspiration/dispense system that aspirates fluids from the wells of the multiwell plates and dispenses fluids into the wells of the multiwell plates; a test sample dispense system that dispenses aliquots of test samples into the wells of the multiwell plates; and a multiwell plate sealing system that seals the wells of the multiwell plates. 39. The fluid dispensing system of claim 38, wherein the test samples comprise polypeptide samples. 40. The fluid dispensing system of claim 36, wherein the controller comprises at least one logic device and at least one database. 41. The fluid dispensing system of claim 40, wherein the logic device comprises one or more logic instructions that direct the fluid dispensing system to: move the moving element a selected distance; move the support structure a selected distance; and dispense selected volumes of fluids from selected fluid dispensers into selected wells of the multiwell plates. 42. The fluid dispensing system of claim 41, wherein the logic instructions direct the fluid dispensing system to: (a) sequentially position each well of two or more multiwell plates underneath each of the fluid dispensers; and (b) dispense selected volumes of fluid from selected fluid dispensers into selected wells of the multiwell plates when the selected fluid dispensers are positioned above the selected wells, thereby simultaneously producing multiple fluid mixtures in two or more multiwell plates. 43. The fluid dispensing system of claim 41, wherein the logic instructions direct the fluid dispensing system to: position a first well of a first row of a multiwell plate under a first fluid dispenser; move the support structure sequentially across the entire first row of a multiwell plate, dispensing selected volumes of a first fluid from the first fluid dispenser into one or more selected wells in the first row when the fit fluid dispenser is positioned above the selected well; sequentially advance the moving element to position a first well of a second row of a multiwell plate under the first fluid dispenser and the first well of the first row under a second fluid dispenser, and move the support structure sequentially across the entire first and second rows, dispensing selected volumes of a first fluid from the first fluid dispenser into one or more selected wells in the second row when the first fluid dispenser is positioned above the selected well, and dispensing selected volumes of a second fluid from the second fluid dispenser into one or more selected wells in the fist row when the second fluid dispenser is positioned above the selected well. 44. The fluid dispensing system of claim 41, wherein the database comprises information about: fluids in fluid containers that are in fluid communication with the fluid dispensers; selected wells into which a selected fluid dispenser is to dispense a selected fluid, wherein the selected wells are located on two or more multiwell plates; and selected volumes of the selected fluids that are to be dispensed into each selected well. 45. A method of simultaneously producing multiple fluid mixtures in multiple multiwell plates, the method comprising: (a) providing a fluid dispensing system that comprises an at least one linear array of fluid dispensers, wherein each fluid dispenser corresponds to a single well of a multiwell plate and the linear array comprises: a number of fluid dispenser that is greater than the number of wells in a line of wells of a single multiwell plate, wherein the line of wells is parallel to a longitudinal is of the linear array; and, at least two fluid dispensers that are spaced at least a sufficient distance apart to simultaneously dispense a fluid into a well of a fist multiwell plate and a corresponding well of a second multiwell plate when both plates are placed beneath the linear array of fluid dispensers; (b) sequentially positioning each well of the multiple multiwell plates underneath each of the fluid dispensers; and (c) dispensing selected volumes of fluid from selected fluid dispensers into selected wells of the multiple multiwell plates when the selected fluid dispensers are positioned above the selected wells, thereby simultaneously producing the multiple fluid mixtures in multiple multiwell plates. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein at least a first fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a fiat fluid, and at least a second fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to at least a second fluid container that contains at least a second fluid that differs from the first fluid. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein at least two different fluids are dispensed into each selected well of the multiwell plates. 48. The method of claim 46, wherein each fluid container holds a stock solution and each selected well receives fluid from a plurality of fluid containers. 49. The method of claim 46, wherein the first and second fluids are independently selected from the group consisting of: water, a stock solution, a buffer, a reagent, a solvent, a salt solution, a polymer solution, an inorganic solution, an organic solvent, and a cell suspension. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein: at least a first fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains water; at least a second fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a salt solution; at least a third fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains a polymer solution; and at least a fourth fluid dispenser in the linear array is connected to a fluid container that contains an organic solvent. 51. The method of claim 50, wherein: the salt solution comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of cacodylic acid, CHES, HEPES, citric acid, malonic acid, MES, phosphoric acid, acetic acid, and a salt thereof; the polymer solution comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of glycerol, ethylene glycol, formate, spermine, and polyethylene glycol; and the organic solvent comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of 1,2-propanediol, DMSO, methanol, dioxane, trifluoroethanol, MPD, ethanol, and isopropanol. 52. The method of claim 45, wherein the fluid dispensing system comprises a plurality of linear arrays, each of which comprises at least two fluid dispensers that are spaced at least a sufficient distance apart to simultaneously dispense a fluid into a well of a first multiwell plate and a corresponding well of a second multiwell plate when both plates are placed beneath the linear away of fluid dispensers. 53. The method of claim 45, wherein the line of wells of the multiwell plate is a row of wells. 54. The method of claim 45, wherein the line of wells of the multiwell plate is a column of wells. 55. The method of claim 45, wherein the number of fluid dispensers is x times the number of wells in the line of wells of the multiwell plate and x is a whole number greater than or equal to 2. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein x is selected from the group consisting of: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. 57. The method of claim 45, wherein each of the multiwell plates comprises 6, 12, 24, 48, 96, 384, 1536, or more wells. 58. The method of claim 45, wherein the selected volumes comprise between about 1 nl and about 500 ml. 59. The method of claim 45, wherein one or more of the fluid mixtures comprise 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more mixed fluids. 60. The method of claim 45, further comprising cleaning the fluid dispensers after one or more of the selected volumes are dispensed. 61. The method of claim 45, wherein the multiwell plates are protein crystallization plates in which each well comprises a reagent fluid container and a crystallization platform elevated above the reagent reservoir. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein the crystallization platform is a micro-bridge. 63. The method of claim 61, further comprising: (d) aspirating a fluid mixture from a reagent reservoir in a well of a processed multiwell plate with an aspiration/dispense system; (e) dispensing an aliquot of a test sample onto the crystallization platform of the selected well with a sample dispensing system; (f) dispensing selected volumes of the aspirated fluid mixture of (d) onto the crystallization platform with the aspiration/dispense system, wherein the dispensed fluid mixture is placed in contact with the aliquot of the test sample; (g) repeating (d) through (f) for additional test samples, if any, and (h) sealing the wells of the processed multiwell plate with a multiwell plate sealing system. 64. The method of claim 63, wherein the processed multiwell plate is gripped and translocated between the fluid dispensing system, the aspiration/dispense system, the test sample dispensing device system, and the multiwell plate sealing system with a gripper apparatus. 65. The method of claim 64, wherein (d) through (h) are completed without having the gripper apparatus release the multiwell plate. 66. The method of claim 64, wherein (d) through (h) are completed in one minute or less. 67. The method of clam 63, wherein the fluid mixtures comprise crystallization mother liquor solutions and the test samples comprise molecules to be crystallized. 68. The method of claim 67, further comprising: (i) storing the processed multiwell plate of (h) under conditions suitable for test sample crystals to form in the wells; and (j) detecting the test sample crystals formed in the wells. 69. The method of claim 67, wherein the molecules comprise macromolecules. 70. The method of claim 69, wherein the test samples further comprise a molecule that can form a complex with the macromolecule. 71. The method of claim 67, wherein the molecules comprise polypeptides. 72. The method of claim 67, wherein a total combined volume of the test sample and the crystallization mother liquor solution dispensed on the crystallization platform in the selected well is less than 10 ml. 73. The method of claim 72, wherein the total combined volume of the test sample and the crystallization mother liquor solution dispensed on the crystallization platform is less than 1 ml. 74. The method of claim 73, wherein the total combined volume of the test sample and the crystallization mother liquor solution dispensed on the crystallization platform is less than 750 nl. 75. The method of claim 74, wherein the total combined volume of the test sample and the crystallization mother liquor solution dispensed on the crystallization platform is less than 500 nl. 76. The method of claim 75, wherein the total combined volume of the test sample and the crystallization mother liquor solution dispensed on the crystallization platform is less than 250 nl. 77. The method of claim 75, wherein the total combined volume of the test sample and the crystallization mother liquor solution dispensed on the crystallization platform is between 1 nl and 250 nl. 78. The method of claim 67, wherein (f) comprises dispensing the selected volume of the crystallization mother liquor solution as a plurality of separate subvolumes that are placed in contact with the test sample on the crystallization platform. 79. The method of claim 78, further comprising agitating the processed multiwell plate of (f) after at least one set of the separate subvolumes is dispensed such that the test samples and the crystallization mother liquor solutions admix with each other. 80. The method of claim 78, wherein the selected volumes are dispensed as between about two and about 10 separate subvolumes. 81. An apparatus for preparing fluid mixtures in a plurality of multi-well vessels, each of the multiwell vessels having a plurality of wells, the apparatus comprising: a multi-well vessel moving apparatus configured to receive and move the plurality of multi-well vessels in a first direction; a plurality of tubes, each tube configured to dispense a fluid into individual wells of the multi-well vessels, where the tubes have a footprint in the column direction, where each of the multi-well vessels has a footprint in the column direction, where the footprint of the tubes in the column direction is longer than the footprint of any single one of the multi-well vessels in the column direction; a tube mover configured to move the plurality of tubes in a second direction; and a controller communicating with the vessel moving apparatus, the plurality of tubes and the tube mover, the controller programmed to selectively move the multi-well vessels and the tube mover and dispense fluid into individual wells of the multi-well vessels. 82. An apparatus for preparing fluid mixtures, comprising: a vessel receiving area constructed to hold a plurality of multi-well vessels, with each vessel configured to hold a fluid mixture; a plurality of dispensers, each dispenser configured to dispense a determined quantity of a fluid into one well of the multi-well vessels; where the dispensers have a footprint in the column direction, where each of the multi-well vessels has a footprint in the column direction, where the footprint of the dispensers in the column direction is longer than the footprint of any single one of the multi-well vessels in the column direction; a mover configured to position a selected one of the dispensers directly above a selected one of the wells of the multi-well vessels; and a controller communicating with the mover and the dispensers, the controller configured to control the positioning of the mover and to control the dispensing of the fluid. 83. A system for preparing mother liquors in multi-well sample plates for a protein crystallization screen, the mother liquor being a mixture of stock liquids, the system comprising: a plurality of fluid dispensers arranged in an array, at least two of the fluid dispensers dispensing different stock liquids, where the fluid dispensers have a footprint in the column direction, where each of the multi-well vessels has a footprint in the column direction, where the footprint of the fluid dispensers in the column direction is longer than the footprint of any single one of the multi-well vessels in the column direction; a drive mechanism constructed to position fluid dispensers in the array directly over wells in the sample plates, the sample plates having sample wells arranged in rows and columns; and a processor performing the steps of: receiving instruction on the formulation of each mother liquor in each sample well, the formulation being a combination of the stock liquids; calculating the quantity of each stock liquid to be dispensed into each sample well; moving the fluid dispenser array to a new row position; directing the drive mechanism to position the fluid dispenser array directly above a new column of sample wells; identifying which positioned fluid dispensers have a stock liquid required for the formulation in the sample well associated with each positioned fluid dispenser; dispensing, with the identified fluid dispensers, the calculated quantity of stock liquid into each respective sample well; and repeating the moving, directing, identifying, and dispensing steps until all instructed formulations are complete. 84. A system for efficiently preparing mother liquors in a plurality of multi-well sample plates for a protein crystallization screen, the plurality of sample plates arranged with corresponding columns aligned, the system comprising: a plate arranging area configured to receive the plurality of sample plates; a plurality of fluid containers, each fluid container holding a stock solution; a plurality of fluid dispensers arranged in an array, each fluid dispenser being in fluid communication with an associated one of the fluid containers, where the fluid dispensers have a footprint in the column direction, where each of the multi-well vessels has a footprint in the column direction, where the footprint of the fluid dispensers in the column direction is longer than the footprint of each of the multi-well vessels in the column direction; a drive mechanism constructed to sequentially position the fluid dispensers in the array directly over each column of wells in the sample plates; a dispensing mechanism associated with each fluid dispenser; and a fluid controller communicating with the dispensing mechanism; wherein the fluid controller directs the dispensing mechanisms to deliver a quantity of each associated stock solution into each sample well in a column before the drive mechanism moves the fluid dispenser array to a next column. 85. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that at least two sample plates can be beneath the plurality of fluid dispensers at the same time. 86. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that at least three sample plates can be beneath the plurality of fluid dispensers at the same time. 87. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that at least four sample plates can be beneath the plurality of fluid dispensers at the same time. 88. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that the dispensing mechanisms can deliver the material to at least two sample plates at the same time. 89. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that the dispensing mechanisms can deliver the material to at least three sample plates at the same time. 90. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that the dispensing mechanisms can deliver the material to at least four sample plates at the same time. 91. The system of claim 84, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that all of the dispensing mechanisms can deliver the material at the same time. 92. The system of claim 84, wherein the system includes a moving element that has a length of at least n of the sample plates, wherein n is the number of the sample plates, wherein each of the sample plates has m wells, wherein m is the number of wells, wherein the system processes one of the sample plates every m dispensings even though each of the sample plates is in the system for n times m dispensings. 93. The system of claim 92, wherein the moving element has a length of at least two sample plates, wherein each sample plate has 96 wells. 94. The system of claim 92, wherein the moving element has a length of at least three sample plates, wherein each sample plate has 96 wells. 95. The system of claim 92, wherein the moving element has a length of at least four sample plates, wherein each sample plate has 96 wells. 96. The system of claim 84, the fluid controller directs the delivery of the material from each fluid container to each of the sample plates. 97. The system of claim 96, wherein the dispenser controller directs the delivery of the material from each of at least eight fluid containers to each of at least two multi-well plates. 98. A method for automatically preparing a mixture in a well of a multi-well holder, said method comprising the steps of: moving the multi-well holder so that at least one of the wells is positioned below a fluid dispensing device of an array of fluid dispensing devices, where each fluid dispensing device is configured to dispense fluid into individual wells of the multi-well holder, where the array of fluid dispensing devices has a footprint in the column direction, where each of a plurality of multi-well holders has a footprint in the column direction, where the footprint of the array of fluid dispensing devices in the column direction is longer than the footprint of any single one of the multi-well holders in the column direction; dispensing the fluid from the fluid dispensing device into the well; and repeatedly moving the multi-well holder so that the well is positioned below a next fluid dispensing device of the array of fluid dispensing devices and dispensing fluid from the next fluid dispensing device into the well until a predetermined mixture is prepared in the well. 99. A method of preparing mother liquors in multi-well sample plates, each of the multi-well sample plates having an array of sample wells organized in rows and columns, with a predetermined number of sample wells in a column, the method comprising: positioning the sample plates end to end so that corresponding columns of adjacent sample plates align; arranging a plurality of fluid dispensers into a generally linear array of fluid dispensers arranged in a column direction, where each fluid dispenser is configured to dispense fluid into individual wells of the sample plates, where the array of fluid dispensers has a footprint in the column direction, where each of the sample plates has a footprint in the column direction, where the footprint of the array of fluid dispensers in the column direction is longer than the footprint of any single one of the sample plates in the column direction; positioning at least some of the fluid dispensers in the array of fluid dispensers with reference to a first column of sample wells; dispensing a predetermined volume of a material into selected sample wells in the first column from at least some of the fluid dispensers; moving the array of fluid dispensers in a row direction so that at least some fluid dispensers in the array of fluid dispensers are positioned with reference to a second column of sample wells; and dispensing a predetermined volume of a material into selected sample wells in the second column from at least some of the fluid dispensers. 100. The method of preparing mother liquors according to claim 99, wherein each fluid dispenser has an associated material, and all fluid dispensers in the array of fluid dispensers dispense an associated liquid substantially simultaneously in both the first and second dispensing steps. 101. The method of preparing mother liquors according to claim 100, wherein the first and second columns span a plurality of the sample plates. 102. The method of preparing mother liquors according to claim 99, further including the step of continuing to move the array of fluid dispenser and dispense a volume of liquid into selected sample wells until at least one fluid dispenser has been positioned directly above each of the sample wells in a row. 103. The method of preparing mother liquors according to claim 99, further including the steps of: advancing the plurality of sample plates to a next row position; and moving the array of fluid dispensers and dispensing a volume of liquid into selected sample wells while the sample plates ar positioned in the next row position. 104. The method of preparing mother liquors according to claim 99, further including the step of dispensing different liquids from adjacent fluid dispensers in the away of fluid dispensers. 105. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that at least two multi-well holders can be beneath the plurality of fluid dispensers at the same time. 106. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that at least three multi-well holders can be beneath the plurality of fluid dispensers at the same time. 107. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that at least four multi-well holders can be beneath the plurality of fluid dispensers at the same time. 108. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that the fluid dispensers can deliver the material to at least two multi-well holders at the same time. 109. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that the fluid dispensers can deliver the material to at least tree multi-well holders at the same time. 110. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that the fluid dispensers can deliver the material to at least four multi-well holders at the same time. 111. The method of claim 99, wherein the plurality of fluid dispensers are configured so that all of the fluid dispensers can deliver the material at the same dime. 112. The method of claim 99, wherein the sample plates am on a moving element that has a length of at least n of the sample plates, wherein n is the number of the multi-well plates, wherein each of the multi-well plates has m wells, wherein m is the number of wells, wherein the method processes one of the multi-well plates every m dispensings even though the method involves n times m dispensings. 113. The method of claim 112, wherein the sample plates are on a moving element that has a length of at least two multi-well plates, wherein each multi-well plate has 96 wells. 114. The method of claim 112, wherein the sample plates are on a moving element that has a length of at least three multi-well plates, wherein each multi-well plate has 96 wells. 115. The method of claim 112, wherein the sample plates are on a moving element that has a length of at least four multi-well plates, wherein each multi-well plate has 96 wells. 116. The method of claim 99, wherein a controller directs the delivery of the material from one or more fluid containers to each of the sample plates. 117. The method of claim 116, wherein the controller directs the delivery of the material from each of at least eight fluid container to each of at least two multi-well plates. 118. The method of claim 116, wherein the controller directs the delivery of the material from each of at least eight fluid containers to each of at least three multi-well plates. 119. The method of claim 116, wherein the controller directs the delivery of the material from each of at least eight fluid contain to each of at least four multi-well plates. 