The present invention provides an assembly apparatus employing at least a robotic or automated assembly apparatus to manipulate the components to be assembled and at least a first vision alignment system to align the components prior to their assembly. An adhesive dispense system is provided to connect, attach or otherwise adhere the components together. In a method in accord with the present invention for assembling components, a source of the components is provided is located relative to a global reference system. The components held by the source are then located relative to the global reference system based upon the determined location of the source. An adhesive is dispensed onto a first of the components and a second component is manipulated into an initial attachment position relative to the first component. The components are imaged by a local imaging system to establish their position relative to each other and the second component is moved into a desired attachment position and then moved into engagement with the adhesive and the first component. The adhesive may then be at least partially cured if desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for assembling at least a first component to a second component, said apparatus comprising: a robotic assembly apparatus including a manipulator arm movable in xyz and .theta. directions; a global vision system comprising a camera, said global vision system being provided for locating the first component relative to a global reference system; a vacuum collet attached to said manipulator arm for placing the first component in an attachment position relative to the second component wherein the first and second components are disposed substantially one above the other; an adhesive dispense system attached to said manipulator arm for dispensing adhesive onto at least a selected one of said first and second components; and a local vision system attached to said manipulator arm, said local vision system being provided for imaging said first and second components when said first and second components are iii said attachment position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said local vision system includes a local vision lighting system, said local vision lighting system comprising: a diffuser plate; and a pair of light sources directed at said diffuser plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said light sources are directed at said diffuser plate from substantially opposite directions. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said diffuser plate has a substantially surface and light sources direct light at said diffuser stave at an angle in the range of about 0.degree. to about 30.degree. with respect to said diffuser surface. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said light sources direct light at said diffuser surface at an angle of about 15.degree. with respect to said diffuser surface. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said light sources are disposed at a distance from said diffuser surface within a range of about 5 mm to about 40 mm. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said diffuser plate has a substantially planar surface and said light sources direct light at said diffuser surface at an angle in the range of about 0.degree. to about 30.degree. with respect to said diffuser surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said light sources direct light at said diffuser surface at an angle of about 15.degree. with respect to said diffuser surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said light sources are disposed at a distance from said diffuser surface within a range of about 5 mm to about 40 mm. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 and further including means for at least partially curing dispensed adhesive. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for at least partially curing comprises an ultraviolet light source. 