An apparatus for processing a workpiece in a micro-environment includes a workpiece housing connected to a motor for rotation. The workpiece housing forms a processing chamber where one or more processing fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. An array of workpiece housings are contained within an enclosure. A robot moves workpieces into and out of the workpiece housings.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an input/output station; a plurality of workpiece processing stations positioned in an array with at least one of the workpiece processing stations comprising: an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member with the upper chamber member moveable relative to the lower chamber member to form a processing chamber with the lower chamber member; a plurality of upper spacing members on the upper chamber member; a plurality of lower spacing members on the lower chamber member, wherein the upper and lower spacing members position the workpiece between the upper and lower chamber members; a first inlet in one of the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member for providing a first fluid flow to a first surface of the workpiece; at least one fluid outlet in the processing chamber positioned to allow escape of fluid from the processing chamber, by centrifugal force generated by rotating the processing chamber; and a robotic arm movable to carry a workpiece from the input/output station to at least one of the workpiece processing stations. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member are moveable into a first position, where they are spaced apart from each other, for loading or unloading a workpiece into or out of the chamber by the robotic arm, and where the upper and lower chamber members are movable into a second position, where they are engaged together, for processing the workpiece. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 with the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member linearly movable together to form the processing chamber and linearly movable apart for loading and unloading a workpiece. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processing chamber is removable from the at least one workpiece processing station in the apparatus and placeable into a second workpiece processing station in the apparatus. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processing chamber is removable from a first workpiece processing station in the apparatus, and movable via the robotic arm to the input/output station for removal from the apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 with the processing chamber formed with interstitial regions between the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece and the upper and lower chamber members, to closely confine processing fluids introduced into the processing chamber around the workpiece. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first inlet extends through the upper chamber member and a second inlet extends through the lower chamber member. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the upper and lower chamber members have flat and parallel interior surfaces. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first inlet is connected to first fluid supply for supplying the first fluid flow across substantially the entire upper surface of the workpiece, and a second inlet is connected to a second fluid supply for supplying the second fluid flow across substantially the entire lower surface of the workpiece. 10. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an input/output station; a plurality of workpiece processing stations positioned in an array, with substantially all of the workpiece processing stations including: a first chamber member having a first fluid inlet opening; a second chamber member, with the first chamber member moveable relative to the second chamber member to form a processing chamber with the second chamber member, the processing chamber having at least one fluid outlet positioned to allow escape of fluid from the processing chamber by centrifugal force; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the processing chamber, in a position to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the first fluid inlet across at least a first face of the workpiece, via centrifugal force; a plurality of fasteners on the first chamber member for securing the first chamber member to the second chamber member for processing the workpiece; a robotic arm movable from the input/output station to the workpiece processing stations. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the workpiece is a generally circular semiconductor wafer and wherein the inlet openings of the first and second chamber members are generally aligned with the center of the semiconductor wafer. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the plurality of workpiece processing stations are positioned on an arcuate path. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the plurality of workpiece processing stations are positioned in first and second spaced apart columns, with the robotic arm movable between the first and second columns. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 with the first chamber member includes sidewalls extending towards the second chamber member, and with the at least one fluid outlet extending through the sidewalls. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein at least one of the plurality of fasteners comprises a rod that is securable into a cylinder on the second chamber member for securing the first chamber member to the second chamber member. 16. The apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an enclosure; an input/output station; a plurality of workpiece processing stations within the enclosure with substantially each one of the workpiece processing stations comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor moveable relative to the first rotor to form a chamber conforming to the shape of the workpiece; a plurality of first spacing members on the first rotor; a plurality of second spacing members on the second rotor, wherein the first and second spacing members position the workpiece between the first and second chamber members; at least one inlet in the chamber, for providing a fluid into the chamber, with the inlet having an opening diameter greater than a height of the chamber formed by the first and second rotors, when the first and second rotors are engaged; at least one outlet in the chamber, for removing fluid from the chamber; and a robotic arm movable within the enclosure, movable between the workpiece processing stations and the input/output station. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the robotic arm rotates about a vertical axis to transport a workpiece. 18. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an enclosure; a plurality of workpiece processing stations in two spaced apart and parallel columns within the enclosure; at least one of the workpiece processing stations comprising an upper element engageable with a lower element to form a chamber in which one or more fluids is distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated by rotation of the workpiece; a plurality of upper spacing members on the upper element; a plurality of lower spacing members on the lower element, wherein the upper and lower spacing members position the workpiece between the upper and lower elements; and at least one robotic arm within the enclosure and movable between the two columns of processing stations. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further including a second robotic arm between the first and second columns. 