In a microactuator having substantially parallel beams, the free ends of the beams are detached from the substrate and rigidly interconnected with one another. Differential thermal expansion of the beams causes deflection of the free ends as a unit laterally away from the thermally expanded beam. Depending on the choice of thermally expanded beam, the deflection can be either in or out of the plane parallel to the substrate. Selective heating is achieved for example by passing electric current through a pair of beams in series. Each beam has an independent electrical contact pad at the base end, and all beams are connected together electrically at the free end. A voltage is applied across the selected beam pads, whereas the non-selected beam pads are disconnected. Multiple microactuators can be combined cooperatively, e.g., to move a stage in a plurality of directions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system operable to provide independently controllable movement in a plurality of directions, said system comprising: at least one microactuator comprising a plurality of substantially parallel longitudinal beams, each of said beams having a cross-sectional area, a base end that is independently positionally fixed, and an opposing free end that is not positionally fixed, said plurality of beams being coupled together such that the free ends of all of said plurality of beams are interconnected physically with one another; said plurality of beams controllably operable responsive to induced thermal expansion of at least one of said plurality of beams to move said interconnected free ends as a unit in at least one direction in each of at least two intersecting lateral planes; and a stage interconnected with a plurality of said microactuators, said stage operable to move controllably in a plurality of directions in response to independently controllable movement of said interconnected free ends of said plurality of said microactuators. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of directions comprise combinations of three translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said stage is interconnected via a flexure with each microactuator of said plurality of microactuators. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of said microactuators comprise at least four said microactuators. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said at least four microactuators are disposed in a substantially planar stepwise rotationally symmetric configuration about said stage. 6. A method operable to provide independently controllable movement in a plurality of directions, said method comprising the steps of: in a microactuator comprising a plurality of substantially parallel longitudinal beams each of said beams having a cross-sectional area, a base end that is independently positionally fixed, and an opposing free end that is not positionally fixed, said plurality of beams being coupled together such that the free ends of all of said plurality of are interconnected physically with one another, selectively thermally expanding at least one of said beams relative to all other beams of said plurality of beams; via said differential thermal expansion, transmitting a bending moment to said plurality of beams; in response to said bending moment, deflecting said interconnected free ends as a unit controllably in a selectable direction in either of at least two intersecting lateral planes; and driving a stage interconnected with a plurality of said microactuators, said stage driven to move controllably in a plurality of directions in response to independently controllable movement of said plurality of said microactuators. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said plurality of directions comprises combinations of three translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein said plurality of said microactuators comprise at least four said microactuators. 