Internet nodes having global positioning receivers or the like are configured for communicating position information over the Internet, using an Internet protocol (IP). Preferably, information packets according to the protocol include some or all of a source identifier, a time stamp and/or an indicator of the type or format of the position information. Preferably, end-users may provide for encryption, passwords or other features for controlling the entities which can receive or use the position information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for real-time positioning comprising: a global positioning receiver which outputs first information indicative of position; and an Internet node coupled to said global positioning receiver, which outputs, to the Internet, a plurality of information packets according to an Internet protocol (IP), wherein an overhead portion of at least some packets includes a position information field, the position information field including position-indicative information, based on the said first information, wherein the position-indicative information indicates a position of the Internet node; wherein said Internet node is configured to control which entities receive said at least some packets; and wherein said Internet node is configured to control which of said entities receiving said at least some packets can access said position-indicative information comprised in said at least some packets. 2. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least some packets also include a source identifier. 3. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least some packets also include time information. 4. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said Internet node is configured to control which entities receiving said at least some packets can access said position-indicative information by encrypting. 5. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said overhead portion of in said at least some packets includes a type field indicative of a format of said position-indicative information. 6. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said Internet node outputs packets to the Internet by a wireless link. 7. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least some packets include information indicating that said packets include position-indicative information. 8. A method for real-time positioning comprising: receiving, at a first global positioning receiver, coupled to an Internet node, global positioning signals; outputting, from said global positioning receiver to said Internet node, first information indicative of a position; outputting, from said Internet node to the Internet, a plurality of information packets according to an Internet protocol (IP), wherein an overhead portion of at least some packets includes a position information field, the position information field including position-indicative information, based on the said first information, wherein the position-indicative information indicates a position of the Internet node; and controlling which entities receive said at least some packets; and controlling which of said entities receiving said at least some packets can access said position-indicative information comprised in said at least some packets. 9. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of outputting comprises outputting packets which include a source identifier. 10. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of outputting comprises outputting packets which include time information. 11. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said controlling comprises encrypting said position-indicative information. 12. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of outputting comprises outputting packets which include a type field indicative of a format of said position-indicative information. 13. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of outputting comprises outputting packets to the Internet by a wireless link. 14. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of outputting comprises outputting at least some packets which include information indicating that said packets include position-indicative information. 15. Apparatus for real-time positioning comprising: an Internet node; means in said Internet node for formatting a plurality of information packets according to an Internet protocol (IP), wherein an overhead portion of at least some packets includes a position information field, the position information field including position-indicative information, based on first information indicative of a position, wherein the position-indicative information indicates a position of the Internet node; means for outputting, from said Internet node to the Internet, the said plurality of packets; and means for controlling which entities receive said at least some packets; and means for controlling which of said entities receiving said at least some packets can access said position-indicative information comprised in said at least some packets. 16. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for outputting comprises means for outputting packets which include a source identifier. 17. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for outputting comprises means for outputting packets which include time information. 18. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for controlling control which entities receiving said at least some packets can access said position-indicative information by encrypting said position-indicative information. 19. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for outputting comprises means for outputting packets which include a type field indicative of a format of said position-indicative information. 20. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for outputting comprises means for outputting packets to the Internet by a wireless link. 21. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for outputting comprises means for outputting at least some packets which include information indicating that said packets include position-indicative information. 22. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, further comprising a global positioning receiver, coupled to said Internet node, for providing said first information to said Internet node. 23. A method, as claimed in claim 11, wherein said encrypting is performed before said position-indicative information is included in said at least some packets. 24. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said Internet node is configured to disable the outputting of one or more information packets in response to user input, wherein said one or more information packets include said position information field. 25. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 24, wherein said Internet node does not disable the outputting of an emergency information packet in response to said user input, wherein said emergency information packet includes the position information field and is generated according to an emergency feature. 26. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said Internet node is configured to encrypt each of a plurality of instances of said position-indicative information differently; and said Internet node is configured to output said instances of said position-indicative information to the Internet. 27. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 26, wherein said Internet node is configured to include each of said instances of said position-indicative information in a single information packet; and said single packet includes a position information field for each of said instances of said position-indicative information. 28. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 27, wherein each of said instances of said position-indicative information specifies a different level of position-indicative information. 29. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said Internet node is configured to allow a user to define a first class of entities who can always receive information packets containing position-indicative information. 30. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 29, wherein said Internet node is configured to allow the user to define a second class of entities who can only receive information packets containing position-indicative information in certain circumstances. 31. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 30, wherein said Internet node is configured to allow the user to define a third class of entities blocked from receiving information packets containing position-indicative information. 32. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least some packets include information indicating an engine malfunction. 33. A method, as claimed in claim 8, further comprising disabling the outputting of one or more information packets, in response to user input, wherein said one or more information packets include said position information field. 34. A method, as claimed in claim 33, wherein the outputting of an emergency information packet is not disabled in response to said user input, wherein the emergency information packet includes the position information field and is generated according to an emergency feature. 35. A method, as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: encrypting each of a plurality of instances of said position-indicative information differently; and outputting each of the instances of said position-indicative information to the Internet. 36. A method, as claimed in claim 35, wherein each of said instances of said position-indicative information is included in a single information packet; and the single packet includes a position information field for each of said instances of said position-indicative information. 37. A method, as claimed in claim 36, wherein each of said instances of said position-indicative information specifies a different level of position-indicative information. 38. A method, as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: allowing a user to define a first class of entities who can always receive information packets containing position-indicative information. 39. A method, as claimed in claim 38, further comprising: allowing the user to define a second class of entities who can only receive information packets containing position-indicative information in certain circumstances. 40. A method, as claimed in claim 39, further comprising: allowing the user to define a third class of entities blocked from receiving information packets containing position-indicative information. 41. A method, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said at least some packets include information indicating an engine malfunction. 42. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: means for disabling said outputting of one or more information packets, in response to user input, wherein said one or more information packets include said position information field. 43. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 42, further comprising: means for outputting of an emergency information packet, wherein said emergency information packet includes the position information field, and wherein said means for outputting of an emergency information packet are not disabled in response to said user input. 44. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: means for encrypting each of a plurality of instances of said position-indicative information differently; and means for outputting each of the instances of said position-indicative information to the Internet. 45. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 44, wherein each of said instances of said position-indicative information is included in a single information packet; and the single packet includes a position information field for each of said instances of said position-indicative information. 46. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 45, wherein each of said instances of said position-indicative information specifies a different level of position-indicative information. 47. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: means for allowing a user to define a first class of entities who can always receive information packets containing position-indicative information. 48. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 47, further comprising: means for allowing the user to define a second class of entities who can only receive information packets containing position-indicative information in certain circumstances. 49. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 48, further comprising: means for allowing the user to define a third class of entities blocked from receiving information packets containing position-indicative information. 50. Apparatus, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said at least some packets include information indicating an engine malfunction. 