A multi-head robotic system capable of delivering numerous robotic devices to a task site is disclosed. A number of robotic devices perform tasks simultaneously, thus tasks can be completed quickly. Each individual robot does not need to move at an extremely fast speed. The sequence in which the robotic devices arrive at or leave a task site is unlimited. The robotic delivery system is capable of "leapfrogging" robotic devices, or placing them randomly, at locations where they are most needed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A material handling system comprising: at least one material handling device; at least one track for transporting said material handling device; a plurality of workstations located along the track; and wherein said material handling device is a robotic device capable of independent operation when not connected to said track and wherein each material handling device is removably coupled to the track while the track remains in motion. 2. The material handling system of claim 1, further comprising: a machine vision system for monitoring the location and movement of the material handling device; a drive system for propelling the material handling device along the track; and a speed regulating system for controlling the speed of the drive system. 3. The material handling system of claim 2, wherein said drive system is operationally coupled to said track and to said material handling device, and said drive system is characterized by a transporting device selected from the group consisting of a chain, belt or cable. 4. The material handling system of claim 1, wherein said material handling device is capable of operationally coupling to at least one of the plurality of workstations. 5. The material handling system of claim 1, further comprising: a track guide element for routing said at least one material handling device, wherein said track guide element has a closed-loop configuration, and said closed-loop configuration may be altered to an open-loop configuration; a conveyor track for transporting the material handling device, said conveyor track operably positioned with said track guide element; at least one material handling device removably attached to said conveyor track and said guide element; a drive system for maintaining the speed of the conveyor track; and a coupling mechanism operationally attached to the material handling device which allows the material handling device to disengage or engage the conveyor track and the guide element. 6. The material handling system of claim 5, wherein said track guide element has a first closed-loop configuration, and said first closed-loop configuration may be altered to produce a second closed-loop configuration while maintaining the track guide element in a closed-loop configuration. 7. The material handling system of claim 5, further comprising a second track guide element, wherein said first guide track element and said second guide track element are operationally connected, to allow the transfer of a material handling device from the first guide track element to the second guide track element. 8. The material handling system of claim 5, further comprising a device for removing said material handling device from said conveyor track and said guide element. 9. The material handling system of claim 5, further comprising a device for introducing a material handling device to the conveyor track and said guide element. 10. The material handling system of claim 5, further comprising: a wait zone, adapted for storage of material handling devices prior to the material handling devices being attached to said conveyor track; and an unload zone, adapted for receiving material handling devices removed from said conveyor track. 11. The material handling system of claim 10, further comprising a device for shuttling said material handling devices from said unload zone to said wait zone. 12. The material handling system of claim 10, wherein said track guide element includes a truck, having at least one wheeled carriage, to which is releasably attached a material handling device. 13. The material handling system of claim 12, wherein said track guide element includes a drive chain. 14. The material handling system of claim 13, wherein said drive chain engages the truck via a device selected from the group consisting of a drive gear or a cog. 15. The material handling system of claim 14, wherein said drive chain engages the truck via a device equipped with a disconnect device. 16. The material handling system of claim 15, wherein said disconnect device is a clutch. 17. The material handling system of claim 15, wherein said disconnect device is a gear braking mechanism. 18. The material handling system of claim 13, wherein said track guide element includes a double-linked drive chain. 19. The material handling system of claim 5, further comprising a positional feedback device operationally coupled to said conveyor track. 20. The material handling system of claim 19, wherein the positional feedback device is an encoder. 21. The material handling system of claim 19, wherein the conveyor track is a drop-pinch cable system. 22. The material handling system of claim 19 comprising: at least one material handling device removably attached to said track guide element, said material handling device capable of propelling itself along said track guide element; and a coupling mechanism operationally attached to the material handling device which allows the material handling device to disengage or engage the track guide element. 23. A material handling system comprising: a plurality of independently operable material handling devices; at least one continuously moving track for transporting said material handling devices; a drive system for maintaining said track at a constant speed; a plurality of workstations located along the route traversed by the track; and wherein each material handling device further comprises a device for removably attaching the material handling device to the track when the track is continuously moving at said constant speed. 