Methods of sampling specimens for microanalysis, particularly microanalysis by atom probe microscopy, include steps of forming a study specimen in a first study object (as by use of focused ion beam milling); removing the study specimen from the study object; situating the study specimen on a second study object; and microanalyzing the study specimen. Where the first study object is of particular interest for study, the study specimen may be taken from a functional portion of the first study object so that microanalysis will provide information regarding this functional portion. Where the second study object is of particular interest for study, the second study object may be subjected to manufacturing processes (e.g., deposition of layers of materials) after the study specimen is situated thereon so that the study specimen will provide information regarding the results of the manufacturing process. The study specimen may have study regions formed thereon which are particularly suitable for study by atom probes, e.g., regions bearing raised protrusions, at virtually any point during the process, thereby greatly enhancing the speed and efficiency of specimen preparation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a specimen for atom probe microanalysis comprising: a. forming one or more regions on an object, the regions being suitable for atom probe microanalysis; b. subjecting one or more of the regions to a manufacturing process wherein zones of different materials are defined on the regions; and c. thereafter microanalyzing at least one of the processed regions with an atom probe. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the manufacturing process is a layer deposition process. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the manufacturing process is chosen from at least one of spin casting, photolithography, epitaxial thin film deposition, and ion implantation. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the regions are separated from the object prior to the step of microanalysis. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the separated regions are situated on or within a second object prior to the step of microanalysis. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the regions are separated from the object after the step of defining zones of different materials on the regions. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of forming regions on the object includes forming one or more protrusions on each region. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the protrusions are formed by removing material from the object about the boundaries of each protrusion. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the object is a semiconductor wafer. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the object contains an integrated circuit. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein at least one of the regions is situated adjacent to the integrated circuit. 12. A method of preparing a specimen for atom probe microanalysis comprising: a. defining a region suitable for atom probe microanalysis on an object; b. depositing material on the region; and c. thereafter microanalyzing the region with an atom probe. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of defining the region includes forming a protrusion on the object. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of forming the protrusion on the object includes removing material from the object to leave the protrusion remaining. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the object is a semiconductor wafer. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the object contains an integrated circuit. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein at least one of the regions is situated adjacent to the integrated circuit. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the region is separated from the object prior to material deposition. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein the region is separated from the object prior to microanalysis. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the region is separated from the object after material deposition. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein: a. the separated region is placed on or within a second object, and b. material is then deposited onto the second object and separated region together. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein: a. the separated region is placed on or within a second object, and b. the second object and the separated region are then microanalyzed together. 23. A method of preparing a specimen for atom probe microanalysis comprising: a. defining one or more regions on an object, each region containing one or more protrusions suitable for atom probe microanalysis; b. depositing material on at least one of the regions; and c. thereafter microanalyzing at least one of the regions with an atom probe. 