Robotic apparatus for removing seeds contained in covered or uncovered containers and planting the seeds into selected planting chambers are disclosed. An exemplary apparatus includes a first vacuum-activated probe configured to pick up an entire seed population from a donor container. A seed-alignment trough is provided to receive the seed population from the first probe. The seed-alignment trough is configured such that seeds deposited in the trough become aligned or otherwise arranged. A second vacuum-activated probe is configured to successively remove individual seeds from the seed-alignment trough and to plant each removed seed in a selected planting chamber. Also disclosed are automated methods for transferring and planting
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for planting seeds, comprising: a first probe having an end surface configured to pick up a plurality of seeds whenever vacuum is applied to the probe and the end surface is positioned proximate the plurality of seeds; a seed-dispersing container for receiving the plurality of seeds from the first probe, wherein when the plurality of seeds are deposited in the seed-dispersing container, the seeds are caused to disperse and form an array along a surface of the seed-dispersing container; and a second probe for picking up and planting seeds deposited in the seed-dispersing container, the second probe having an end surface configured to pick up a selected number of seeds from the seed-dispersing container whenever vacuum is applied to the probe and the end surface is positioned proximate the seeds. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end surfaces of the first and second probes are shaped to correspond to the shape of the seed-dispersing container. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the end surfaces of the probes are substantially V-shaped to correspond to the shape of the seed-dispersing container. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the seed-dispersing container is configured to form a seed-alignment trough. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of planting chambers for receiving seeds from the second probe. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a plurality of indicating elements for placing in any planting chambers that do not contain any seeds. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second probes are carried by a robotic assembly configured to move in x, y and z dimensions to position the first and second probes at selected x-y-z positions. 8. The apparatus of 1, further comprising a probe-cleaning apparatus configured to remove debris from at least one of the first and second probes. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end surface of the first probe comprises a mesh screen defining openings that are smaller than the seeds. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the openings of the mesh screen are about 100 to 150 microns in size. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end surface of the second probe defines a selected number of openings for picking up a corresponding selected number of seeds, with each opening being dimensioned smaller than a seed. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the openings are about 100 to 160 microns in diameter. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a vacuum-sensing device operatively connected to the second probe for sensing the vacuum in the second probe for detecting whether the end surface of the second probe has picked up any seeds from the seed-dispersing container. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein when the plurality of seeds are deposited in the seed-dispersing container, the seeds are caused to disperse and form a linear array along a surface of the seed-dispersing container. 15. An apparatus for removing seeds contained in a donor container and for planting the seeds in selected planting cells, the apparatus comprising: seed-removal means for removing seeds from the donor container; seed-alignment means for receiving seeds from the seed-removal means, wherein seeds deposited in the seed-alignment means form a row of seeds therein; and seed-planting means for removing seeds from the alignment means and for planting the seeds in selected planting cells. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the seed-removal means and the seed-planting means are movable to selected positions in three-dimensional space, the apparatus further comprising means for controlling respective movements of the seed-removal means and the seed-planting means to selected positions in three-dimensional space. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the seed-alignment means comprises a seed-alignment trough. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein seed-removal means is configured to pick up a plurality of seeds contained in the donor container, and the seed-planting means is configured to pick up individual seeds contained in the seed-alignment means. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the seed-removal means comprises a probe having an air-pervious end surface configured to pick up seeds upon application of a vacuum to the probe. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the seed-planting means comprises a probe having an end surface defining a selected number of openings for picking up a corresponding selected number of seeds upon application of a vacuum to the probe. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the end surface defines one opening for picking up one seed. 22. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising indicating means for placing in a planting cell in which seeds have not been planted. 23. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for sensing whether the seed-planting means has picked up any seeds from the seed-alignment means. 24. An apparatus for moving seeds, comprising: a first probe configured to move in three-dimensional space, the first probe being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source and having an air-pervious end surface, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the first probe is effective to cause the end surface to pick up a plurality of seeds and hold the plurality of seeds against the end surface, and wherein release of the vacuum from the first probe causes the end surface of the first probe to release the seeds; a second probe configured to move in three-dimensional space, the second probe being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source and having an apertured end surface, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the second probe is effective to cause the end surface of the second probe to pick up a selected number of seeds and hold the selected number of seeds against the end surface of the second probe, and wherein release of the vacuum from the second probe causes the end surface of the second probe to release the selected number of seeds; a cover-removal manipulator configured to remove and replace a cover on a container containing the seeds. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the first probe, the second probe and the cover-removal manipulator are carried by a robotic assembly configured to move in three-dimensional space. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising a controller for controlling the movement of the first and second probes to selected positions in three-dimensional space. 27. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a seed-dispersing container for receiving a plurality of seeds from one or both of the first and second probes, wherein when the plurality of seeds are deposited in the seed-dispersing container, the seeds are caused to disperse and form an array along a surface of the seed-dispersing container. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the seed-dispersing container is configured to form a substantially linear array of seeds. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the seed-dispersing container has a generally V-shaped cross-section and the end surfaces of the probes are substantially V-shaped to correspond to the cross-sectional shape of the seed-dispersing container. 30. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a plurality of planting chambers for receiving seeds from one or both of the first and second probes. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a plurality of indicating elements for placing in any planting chambers that do not contain any seeds. 32. A method of planting seeds comprising: positioning a first probe at a first position to remove a plurality of seeds from a donor container, the first probe having an end portion defining a plurality of apertures each smaller than a seed; applying a vacuum to the first probe to cause the first probe to pick up the plurality of seeds; positioning the first probe at a second position to deposit the seeds carried by the first probe into a seed-alignment container; releasing the vacuum from the first probe to cause the seeds carried by the first probe to be released into the seed-alignment container to align the seeds; positioning a second probe at the seed-alignment container to remove a selected number of seeds from the seed-alignment container; applying a vacuum to the second probe to cause the second probe to pick up a selected number of seeds from the seed-alignment container; positioning the second probe at a third position to plant the selected number of seeds; and releasing the vacuum from the second probe to cause the selected number of seeds to be released from the second probe for planting. 33. An apparatus for handling seeds, comprising: means for picking up a plurality of loose seeds from a container; means for picking up a selected number of loose seeds from a container; and a seed-alignment means for receiving seeds from said means for picking up a plurality of seeds and for forming a row of seeds deposited therein; wherein said means for picking up a plurality of seeds comprises a first probe having an end surface configured to pick up a plurality of seeds whenever vacuum is applied to the probe and the end surface is positioned proximately to the plurality of seeds; said seed-alignment means comprises a seed-dispersing container for receiving the plurality of seeds from the first probe, wherein when the plurality of seeds are deposited in the seed-dispersing container, the seeds are caused to disperse and form an array along a surface of the seed-dispersing container; and said means for picking up a selected number of seeds comprises a second probe for picking up and planting seeds deposited in the seed-dispersing container, the second probe having an end surface configured to pick up a selected number of seeds from the seed-dispersing container whenever vacuum is applied to the probe and the end surface is positioned proximately to the seeds. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein: said means for picking up a plurality of seeds comprises a first probe configured to move in three-dimensional space, the first probe being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source and having an air-pervious end surface, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the first probe is effective to cause the end surface to pick up a plurality of seeds and hold the plurality of seeds against the end surface, and wherein release of the vacuum from the first probe causes the end surface of the first probe to release the seeds; and said means for picking up a selected number of seeds comprises a second probe configured to move in three-dimensional space, the second probe being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source and having an apertured end surface, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the second probe is effective to cause the end surface of the second probe to pick up a selected number of seeds and hold the selected number of seeds against the end surface of the second probe, and wherein release of the vacuum from the second probe causes the end surface of the second probe to release the selected number of seeds. 