An apparatus for detecting a trip wire includes a point source of light of a given wavelength; a mirror that reflects the point source of light, the mirror having a first frequency of oscillation about a first axis to thereby create an appearance of a continuous line, the mirror having a second frequency of oscillation about a second axis to thereby define a planar surface, the first frequency of oscillation being greater than the second frequency of oscillation; a camera offset from the point source of light such that a field of view of the camera does not intersect the planar surface, the camera receiving light reflected from the trip wire; and a computer connected to the camera, the computer including pattern recognition algorithms for analyzing the light reflected from the trip wire and thereby detecting a presence of the trip wire.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for detecting a trip wire, comprising: a point source of light of a given wavelength; a mirror that reflects the point source of light, the mirror having a first frequency of oscillation about a first axis to thereby create an appearance of a continuous line, the mirror having a second frequency of oscillation about a second axis to thereby define a planar surface, the first frequency of oscillation being greater than the second frequency of oscillation; a camera offset from the point source of light such that a field of view of the camera does not intersect the planar surface, the camera receiving light reflected from the trip wire; and a computer connected to the camera, the computer including pattern recognition algorithms for analyzing the light reflected from the trip wire and thereby detecting a presence of the trip wire. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the point source of light comprises a laser. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the laser comprises a HeNe laser. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the given wavelength is about 0.6 micrometers. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first frequency of oscillation of the mirror is at least sixty hertz. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second frequency of oscillation of the mirror is less than one hertz. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a narrow band pass filter through which the light reflected from the trip wire passes before entering the camera. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the narrow band pass filter is centered around the given wavelength. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the planar surface comprises a substantially bow-tie shape. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the planar surface comprises a substantially triangular shape. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the planar surface comprises a substantially rectangular shape. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the camera comprises a video camera. 