An apparatus and method for providing targeted cooling to a pre-molded article, such as a preform. A cooling pin is inserted into the preform such that it makes contact with targeted area, such as the mold gate area. This permits conductive cooling of the targeted area. The apparatus and method are particularly suited to post-mold cooling in conjunction with a robotic take-out plate.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for providing localized cooling to a partially cooled molded article, comprising the steps of: (i) removing a partially cooled article from a mold; (ii) placing said partially cooled article in a cooling holder; (iii) outside the mold, placing a conductive cooling device disposed apart from said mold on a targeted area on an interior surface of the article, the targeted area comprising less than the entire interior surface of the article; and (iv) conductively cooling the targeted area. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the article is a preform. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the preform is formed of polyethylene teraphthalate. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of removing said article from the mold further includes a step of transferring the article to a take-out plate. 5. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of placing a conductive cooling device further includes the step of providing a cooling pin having a head area. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the step of providing a cooling pin having a head area further comprises the step of inserting the cooling pin into the preform such that the head portion contacts the targeted area. 7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising the step of inserting the cooling pin into the preform such that the head portion contacts a gate area of the preform. 8. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of conductively cooling includes the step of circulating a coolant through at least one channel in the cooling device. 9. A method for cooling an injection-molded plastic preform after it is removed from a mold, comprising the steps of: providing a cooling pin disposed apart from said mold, said cooling pin having an enlarged head for cooling a head portion of said plastic preform; removing said plastic preform from said mold; placing said plastic preform in a cooling receptacle; placing said cooling pin inside said plastic preform; circulating a cooling medium through at least one interior passage inside said cooling pin; and cooling said plastic preform head portion. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of cooling the outer surface of said plastic preform during said step of removing said plastic preform from said mold. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising the steps of providing said cooling pin with an enlarged base portion, and cooling a corresponding base portion of said plastic preform. 