A sputter pallet loading and unloading device includes in one embodiment a spindle that rotates the pallet while an arm is engaged with the spring in the pallet to open and close the spring. In another embodiment, the spindle is located adjacent an air track that moves the disk substrate over a cushion of air to the loading area of the pallet. The air pressure under the disk substrate is increased to raise the disk substrate into the loading area. Once raised into the loading area, the spring is closed, e.g., by rotating the pallet in the opposite direction. The pallet and air-track are at a small angle to allow the substrate to slide into the correct position. The simplicity of operation leads to a reduced cost and a higher throughput for this device compared to a robotic loader.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of loading a disk substrate into a pallet, said pallet having a plurality of loading areas and a plurality of springs, each spring extending into an associated one of said loading areas, said spring being biased closed to hold a disk substrate in said loading area, said method comprising: moving said disk near said loading area of said pallet; engaging said spring with an arm; using said arm to open said spring; moving said disk substrate into said loading area; closing said spring; and disengaging said spring with said arm. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein moving said disk near said loading area of said pallet comprises: providing an air cushion under said disk substrate; providing a force on said disk substrate to move said disk substrate under said loading area. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said force is gravity. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said moving said disk substrate into said loading area comprises increasing the air pressure under said disk substrate to raise said disk substrate. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising sensing the position of said disk and controlling said air pressure to raise said disk into said loading area. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein using said arm to open said spring comprises rotating said pallet while holding said arm stationary to press against and open said spring. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said pallet is rotated a first distance in a first direction to open said spring, and wherein closing said spring comprises rotating said pallet by said first distance in a second direction opposite said first direction to close said spring. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein using said arm to open said spring comprises holding said pallet stationary while moving said arm to open said spring. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein moving said arm to open said spring comprises moving a first element of said arm engaged with said spring towards a second element of said arm engaged with the body of said pallet. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising indexing said pallet to present an unloaded loading area of said pallet for loading. 11. A method comprising: moving a disk to a loading area of a pallet; opening a spring located in said loading area of said pallet; moving said disk into said loading area of said pallet; and closing said spring to hold said disk in said loading area. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: indexing said pallet; moving a second disk to be loaded into a second loading area of said pallet; opening a spring located in said second loading area of said pallet; moving said second disk into said second loading area of said pallet; and closing said spring. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein opening said spring comprises: engaging said spring with an arm; and rotating said pallet while holding said arm stationary to open said spring. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said pallet is rotated in a first direction to open said spring, and wherein closing said spring comprises rotating said pallet in a second direction opposite said first direction. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein opening said spring comprises: engaging said spring with an arm; and moving said arm to open said spring. 