The present invention is directed to a control that upon detection of an autothread input determines the amount of time in which a motor of a drive assembly should be activated so as to precisely supply an initial segment of wire to a welding gun of a welding system. The control determines the requisite time necessary to precisely thread the welding wire based on a wire feed speed and gun length. The gun length and wire feed speed may be determined from a series of user inputs or read from memory. By limiting user involvement with the actual "feeding" of wire to the welding gun, a more precise segment of welding wire may be fed to the welding gun such that trimming of wire extending past the tip of the welding gun is not needed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control operable with a wire feeder of a welding system, the control configured to: receive an autothread input from a user; determine a time required for welding wire to thread a prescribed length at a prescribed wire feed speed; and activate a motor configured to drive welding wire from a wire source at the prescribed wire feed speed and for the determined time until a segment of welding wire having the prescribed length is fed. 2. The control of claim 1 wherein the prescribed length is a length of a welding gun of the welding system and further configured to receive a signal from a sensor on the welding gun indicating that the segment of the wire has been threaded through the welding gun. 3. The control of claim 1 wherein the prescribed length is a length of a welding gun of the welding system and wherein the segment of welding wire when threaded through the welding gun has a length defined by a distance between an output end of the welding gun and the wire source. 4. The control of claim 1 further configured to receive the autothread input upon simultaneous user activation of a jog button and a retract button of the welding system. 5. The control of claim 1 further configured to deactivate the motor once the time has elapsed. 6. The control of claim 1 further configured to re-determine the time if the prescribed wire feed speed is reset. 7. The control of claim 1 further configured to receive user input identifying a gun length and the prescribed wire feed speed, and determine the time required for the welding wire to be thread through a welding gun based on the gun length and the prescribed wire feed speed. 8. A power source/interface unit configured to drive a wire drive assembly, the power source/interface unit comprising: a robot control configured to communicate with a robot controller; a peripheral control configured to communicate with a drive assembly of a welding robot having a welding gun; and a processor configured to execute a set of instructions that when executed causes the processor to: receive an autothread user input; determine from a set of wire feed inputs a motor control signal configured to drive the drive assembly to minimally thread wire through the welding robot to the welding gun; and output the motor control signal to the drive assembly. 9. The power source/interface unit of claim 8 further comprising a jog forward control and a jog reverse control and wherein the processor is further configured to detect a user simultaneous activation of the job forward control and the jog reverse control as indication of the autothread user input. 10. The power source/interface unit of claim 8 wherein the processor is further configured to determine a wire feed time signal and output the wire feed time signal to the motor, the wire feed time signal configured to drive the motor for a prescribed time as determined by the processor. 11. The power source/interface unit of claim 10 wherein the processor is further configured to determine the prescribed time from user input identifying wire feed speed and welding gun length. 12. A computer readable storage medium having a computer program stored thereon and representing a set of instructions that when executed by a computer causes the computer to: detect an autothread command on an interface of a welding system; access a plurality of wire feeding parameters; determine a threading time from the plurality of wire feeding parameters; and activate a motor of a drive assembly of a welding gun for the threading time to supply a segment of wire to the welding gun. 13. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 wherein the set of instructions further causes the computer to read the plurality of wire feeding parameters from a database stored in memory on the welding system. 14. The computer readable storage medium of claim 13 wherein the plurality of wire feeding parameters includes welding gun length and desired wire feed speed. 15. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 wherein the autothread command is defined by a simultaneous activation by a user of a jog forward control and a jog reverse control on the welding system. 16. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 incorporated into a software package for uploading to a computer-based controller of the welding system. 17. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 incorporated into a computer data signal downloadable to a computer-based controller of the welding system. 18. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 incorporated into a data card readable by a card reader connectable to the welding system, the card reader having a controller configured to regulate operation of the welding system. 19. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 wherein the set of instructions further causes the computer to access the plurality of wire feeding parameters from a series of user inputs. 20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12 wherein the set of instructions further causes the computer to activate the motor for the threading time so as to thread a minimal segment of wire feed to the welding gun, the minimal segment of wire feed defined as a length of wire feed necessary to fully thread wire feed through the welding gun without needing trimming of the wire feed at an output end of the welding gun. 