A reusable circuit design for use with electronic design automation EDA tools in designing integrated circuits is disclosed, as well as reticle inspection and fabrication methods that are based on such reusable circuit design. The reusable circuit design is stored on a computer readable medium and contains an electronic representation of a layout pattern for at least one layer of the circuit design on an integrated circuit. The layout pattern includes a flagged critical region which corresponds to a critical region on a reticle or integrated circuit that is susceptible to special inspection or fabrication procedures. In one aspect of the reusable circuit design, the special analysis is performed during one from a group consisting of reticle inspection, reticle production, integrated circuit fabrication, and fabricated integrated circuit inspection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a sample having a sample pattern, the method comprising: providing a representation of the sample pattern, the representation having a plurality of flagged regions and a plurality of unflagged regions, wherein each flagged and unflagged region corresponds to a specific region of the sample pattern; performing a process on the sample so as to form at least a portion of the pattern on the sample; and inspecting the regions of the formed sample pattern for defects thereon, wherein only the regions of the sample pattern which correspond to unflagged regions of the representation are inspected while the regions of the sample pattern which correspond to flagged regions of the representation are not inspected. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sample is an integrated circuit. 3. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sample is a reticle. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the representation is an electronic representation of the sample pattern. 5. A method of processing a sample comprising: providing an electronic representation of a layout pattern for the sample to a sample processing system, the electronic representation having a flagged critical region that indicates to the sample processing system that an associated critical region of the sample requires a special production technique; and producing a sample based on the electronic representation, wherein the critical region of the sample associated with the flagged critical region of the electronic representation is produced via the special production technique and other regions of the sample are produced via a normal production technique, wherein the special production technique differs from the normal production technique. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the flagged critical region of the representation contains a flag that is readable by the sample processing system. 7. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the flagged critical region is identified in a shadow representation which together with a base representation defines the entire layout representation. 8. The method as recited in claim 5, further comprising inspecting the critical region of the sample differently from other portions of the sample. 9. A method of inspecting a sample having a special analysis region associated with a critical region and a normal analysis region associated with a normal region, the method comprising: providing an electronic representation of the sample, the representation having a normal region corresponding to the normal analysis region of the sample and a flagged critical region corresponding to the special analysis region of the sample; providing a test image of the sample; providing a baseline representation containing an expected pattern of the test image; and comparing the test image to the baseline representation such that (i) regions of the test image and the baseline representation corresponding to the normal analysis region of the sample are compared via a normal analysis and (ii) regions of the test image and the baseline representation corresponding to the special analysis region of the sample are compared via a special analysis, wherein the special analysis differs from the normal analysis. 10. A method as recited in claim 9, wherein the test image is an electronic optical image. 11. A method as recited in 9, wherein the special analysis is performed at a more stringent threshold than the normal analysis. 12. A method as recited in 11, wherein the normal analysis compares edge positions of corresponding features in the test image and the baseline representation using a first threshold and the special analysis compares edge positions of corresponding features in the test image and the baseline representation using a second threshold. 13. A method as recited in 9, wherein the special analysis compares line widths of corresponding features in the test image and the baseline representation. 14. A method as recited in 13, wherein the corresponding features are gate electrodes. 15. A method as recited in 9, wherein the special analysis compares areas of corresponding features in the test image and the baseline representation. 16. A method as recited in 15, wherein the corresponding features are vias or contact holes. 17. A method as recited in 9, the comparison comprising determining whether a special parameter of the special analysis region is within a first threshold of an associated parameter of the baseline special analysis region. 18. A method as recited in claim 17, the comparison further comprising determining whether a normal parameter of the special analysis region is within a second threshold of an associated parameter of the baseline normal analysis region. 19. A method as recited in claim 18, wherein the second threshold has a greater value than the first threshold. 20. A method as recited in claim 18, wherein the special parameter is an average width or width of a line in the special analysis region. 21. A method as recited in claim 20, wherein the normal parameter is an edge position of the test normal analysis region. 22. A method as recited in claim 18, wherein the special parameter is an area of a feature in the special analysis region. 23. A method as recited in claim 18, wherein the special analysis implements a qualitatively different algorithm than the normal analysis. 24. A method as recited in claim 9, wherein the sample is an integrated circuit. 25. A method of inspecting a sample having a sample pattern, the method comprising: providing a representation of the sample pattern, the representation having a plurality of flagged regions and a plurality of unflagged regions, wherein each flagged and unflagged region corresponds to a specific region of the sample pattern; performing a process on the sample so as to form at least a portion of the pattern on the sample; and inspecting the regions of the formed sample pattern for defects thereon, wherein only the regions of the sample pattern which correspond to flagged regions of the representation are inspected while the regions of the sample pattern which correspond to unflagged regions of the representation are deemed to be permissible defect areas and are not inspected. 26. A method as recited in claim 25, wherein the sample is an integrated circuit. 