Within both a stocker apparatus and a method for operating the stocker apparatus there is employed: (1) a minimum of six input/output ports; (2) an array of storage locations for storing an array of work in process (WIP) product units; and (3) a random access transportation means for transporting a work in process (WIP) product unit at least bidirectionally between the minimum of six input/output ports and a storage location within the array of storage locations. Within the stocker apparatus and the method, the minimum of six input/output ports provides for more efficient operation of the stocker apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stocker apparatus comprising: a minimum of six input/output ports; an array of storage locations for storing an array of work in process product units; a random access transportation means for transporting a work in process product unit at least bidirectionally between the minimum of six input/output ports and a storage location within the array of storage locations; and a series of rigid exterior surface plates covering the exterior dimensions of the stocker apparatus. 2. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a controller for controlling the random access transportation means. 3. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work in process product unit is selected from the group consisting of mechanical work in process product units, electrical work in process product units and electro-mechanical work in process product units. 4. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work in process product unit is a microelectronic work in process product unit selected from the group consisting of integrated circuit microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, ceramic substrate microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, solar cell optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, sensor image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units and display image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units. 5. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 wherein the random access transportation means and the array of storage locations are both on the same side of the minimum of six input/output ports. 6. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a minimum of one door each within the series of rigid exterior surface plates for accessing each of the minimum of six input/output ports. 7. A method for operating a stocker apparatus comprising: providing a stocker apparatus comprising: a minimum of six input/output ports; an array of storage locations for storing an array of work in process product units; a random access transportation means for transporting a work in process product unit at least bidirectionally between the minimum of six input/output ports and a storage location within the array of storage locations; and a series of rigid exterior surface plates covering a series of exterior dimensions of the stocker apparatus; and introducing into or retrieving from the stocker apparatus a work in process product unit. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein within the stocker apparatus the random access transportation means and the array of storage locations are both on the same side of the minimum of six input/output ports. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein by employing within the stocker apparatus the minimum of six input/output ports, the stocker apparatus may be operated more efficiently. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the work in process product unit is selected from the group consisting of mechanical work in process product units, electrical work in process product units and electro-mechanical work in process product units. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the work in process product unit is a microelectronic work in process product unit selected from the group consisting of integrated circuit microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, ceramic substrate microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, solar cell optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, sensor image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units and display image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the stocker apparatus further comprises a minimum of one door each within the series of rigid exterior surface plates for accessing each of the minimum of six input/output ports. 