A memory storage disk handling system includes a housing, an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks, a servo motor with a cam arm. The servo motor rotates to pivot the cam arm, which cams against the elevator pin to lift the elevator pin.
Claims We claim: 1. A memory storage disk handling system, comprising: a housing; an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks; a servo motor attached to the housing; and a linkage assembly attached between the servo motor and the elevator pin, wherein the servo motor includes a shaft, the linkage assembly includes an arm mounted on the shaft, whereby rotation of the shaft pivots the arm to lift the elevator pin. 2. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the arm has a fixed end and a moveable end, the fixed end mounts on the shaft, and the moveable end includes a cam surface that cams against the elevator pin when the arm pivots. 3. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 2, wherein the elevator pin has an axis, and a base that lies in a plane perpendicular to the axis, the elevator pin includes a slot that parallels the base, the cam surface cams within the slot to lift the elevator pin in the direction of the axis. 4. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 2, wherein the elevator pin has an axis, a longitudinal surface and a cam pin extending radially outward from the longitudinal surface, the moveable end of the arm defines a slot that cams against the cam pin when the arm pivots. 5. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 1, wherein one end of the arm mounts on the shaft and the other end of the arm mounts on the elevator pin, the elevator pin has an axis, the servo motor pivots the arm to lift the elevator pin in the direction of the axis and the elevator pin rotates about the axis when the arm lifts the elevator pin. 6. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the disks form a stack having a top and a bottom, and wherein a single disk is added to the bottom of the stack. 7. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a conveyor. 8. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 7, wherein the conveyor delivers disks to the memory storage disk handling system for the elevator pin to stack the delivered disks into a stack. 9. A memory storage disk handling system comprising: a housing defining a hopper for receiving disks; an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks into the hopper; and the hopper being configured for aligning lifted disks into a stack and includes at least one pawl for holding lifted disks in the hopper, wherein the hopper includes a plurality of posts oriented to surround lifted disks, at least one pawl mounts on each post. 10. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of posts includes hollow portions and at least two pawls, the pawls being slidably mounted within the hollow portions. 11. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 10, wherein each pawl includes a slot and the hopper includes pins that insert through the slots to hold each pawl, the pins and slots cooperate to enables the pawls to slide. 12. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 10, wherein each pawl includes an end with a hook for holding lifted disks. 13. A memory storage disk handling system comprising: a housing defining a hopper for receiving disks; an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks into the hopper; and the hopper being configured for aligning lifted disks into a stack and includes at least one pawl for holding lifted disks in the hopper, wherein the hopper includes three posts oriented to surround lifted disks, at least one pawl mounts on each post. 14. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 13, wherein each post includes a hollow portion, the pawls being mounted at least partially within the hollow portions of the posts. 15. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 14, wherein the pawls are slidably mounted within the hollow portions of the posts so that lifting a disk slides the pawls into the hollow portions, and after the disk is lifted, the pawls extend from the hollow portions to hold the disk in the hopper. 16. A memory storage disk handling system, comprising: a housing defining a hopper for holding disks; an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks into the hopper; a servo motor attached to the housing; a linkage assembly attached between the servo motor and the elevator pin for lifting the elevator pin in response to the servo motor; and the hopper defines a base and includes a stack retainer means extending from the base for aligning disks in a vertical stack, the stack retainer means includes more than one pawl for holding lifted disks, wherein the hopper includes a plurality of posts oriented to surround lifted disks, at least one pawl mounts on each of the plurality of posts. 17. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 16, wherein the servo motor includes a shaft, the linkage assembly includes a single arm mounted on the shaft. 18. A memory storage disk handling system comprising: a housing defining a hopper for holding disks; an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks into the hopper; a servo motor attached to the housing; a linkage assembly attached between the servo motor and the elevator pin for lifting the elevator pin in response to the servo motor, the servo motor includes a shaft, the linkage assembly includes a single arm mounted on the shaft, wherein the arm has a fixed end and a moveable end, the fixed end is fixed with respect to the shaft, the moveable end includes a cam surface that cams against the elevator pin to enable the elevator pin to move in response to the servo motor; and the hopper defines a base and includes a stack retainer means extending from the base for aligning disks in a vertical stack, the stack retainer means includes more than one pawl for holding lifted disks. 19. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 18, wherein the stack retainer means includes three posts oriented to surround lifted disks, each post includes a hollow portion, the pawls normally extend from the post and retract within the hollow portions of the posts when a disk lifts past the pawls. 20. A memory storage disk handling system, comprising: a housing; an elevator pin mounted on the housing, wherein the elevator pin presses a single disk into a stack of disks; a servo motor attached to the housing; a base having a position sensor; and a linkage assembly between the servo motor and the elevator pin wherein the servo motor includes a shaft, the linkage assembly includes an arm mounted on the shaft, whereby rotation of the shaft pivots the arm to lift the elevator pin. 21. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 20, wherein the position sensor includes a mechanical arm, the arm engages the elevator pin to detect elevator pin position. 22. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 20, wherein the position sensor includes an optical sensor element. 23. A memory storage disk handling system as set forth in claim 20, wherein the position sensor includes a magnetic sensor element. 24. A memory storage disk handling system, comprising: a housing defining a hopper for holding disks in a stack; an elevator pin mounted on the housing for lifting disks into the hopper; and a plurality of pawls for holding disks, wherein the plurality of pawls slide between a retracted position which enables the elevator pin to lift disks into the stack and an extended position for holding disks, wherein the housing includes a plurality of posts oriented to surround lifted disks, and at least one pawl mounts on each post. 25. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 24, further comprising a servo motor and a linkage assembly, wherein the linkage assembly is attached between the servo motor and the elevator pin for lifting the elevator pin in response to the servo motor. 26. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 25, wherein the linkage assembly includes at least one belt and at least one pulley. 27. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 25, wherein the linkage assembly is a gear linkage assembly. 28. A disk handling system as set forth in claim 24, wherein the disks are retained in a vertical stack. 