A robot that is capable of substantially autonomous movement includes a processing device, a memory, and a mobility structure controlled by the processing device. The processor directs the robot to move with any predetermined safe area having a boundary and a reference point. Optionally, the robot also exhibits features of social interactivity by accepting an input from a human, selecting dynamic content from a data base wherein the dynamic content is responsive to the input, and presenting the human with a response corresponding to the dynamic content selection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot, comprising: a movement apparatus for moving the robot; a means for recognizing a location of the robot; a means for operating the movement apparatus; a means for determining whether an operation of the movement apparatus will result in movement of the robot outside of a boundary corresponding to a reference point, and restricting such movement outside of the predetermined boundary; a means for identifying an object; and a means for instructing the movement apparatus to move the robot in a direction that is either toward or away from the object. 2. An automated, mobile mechanical apparatus, comprising: a processing device; a memory that is in communication with the processing device; a mobility structure that moves the apparatus and is controlled by the processing device; at least one first sensor for measuring an amount of movement; and at least one second sensor for detecting the presence of an object in a predetermined safe area, wherein the predetermined safe area includes a boundary and a reference point, wherein the memory contains computer program instructions that instruct the processor to direct the apparatus to move within the predetermined safe area and instruct the processor to, when at least one second sensor identifies an object in the predetermined safe area, direct the mobility structure to move in a direction that is toward or away from the object. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one second sensor comprises a sonar transceiver, a temperature-sensitive sensor, a vision sensor, an ultraviolet sensor, or an infrared sensor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the computer program instructions further comprise instructions that instruct the processor to direct the apparatus to move to a point that is substantially within the predetermined safe area if the apparatus moves to a point that is outside the predetermined safe area. 5. A method of enabling a mobile robot to detect an object, comprising: defining a safe area having a boundary and a reference point; and directing a mobile robot within the safe area, wherein the mobile robot includes a front side, a movement apparatus, a processor that directs the movement apparatus, at least one sensor connected to the processor to sense an object within the safe area, and a memory including computer instructions that instruct the processor to move the mobile robot towards the object. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the memory further includes computer instructions that instruct the processor to turn the front side of the mobile robot to face the object. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the memory further includes computer instructions that instruct the processor to move the mobile robot away from the object. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the memory further includes computer instructions that instruct the processor to turn the front side of the mobile robot away from the object. 9. A method of enabling a mobile robot to avoid colliding with an object, comprising: defining a safe area having a boundary and a reference point, wherein the safe area includes an object; and directing a mobile robot within the safe area, wherein the mobile robot includes a movement apparatus, a processor that directs the movement apparatus, at least one range sensor connected to the processor, and a memory including a predetermined range of distance values and computer instructions that instruct the processor to move the mobile robot within the safe area so that a distance measured by the at least one range sensor between the mobile robot and the object is substantially within the predetermined range of distance values. 