A system and method for heat treating castings and removing sand cores therefrom. The castings are initially located in indexed positions with their x, y, and z coordinates known. The castings are passed through a heat treatment station typically having a series of nozzles mounted in preset positions corresponding to the known indexed positions of the castings passing through the heat treatment station. The nozzles apply heat to the castings for heat treating the castings and dislodging the sand cores for removal from the castings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a metal casting, comprising: pouring a metal in molten form into a mold; retaining the metal within the mold for a time and to a temperature sufficient to at least partially solidify the metal so as to form the casting: placing the mold in a heat treatment station for heat treating the casting within the mold with the casting aligned in a defined, indexed position; and applying energy to the mold to increase the temperature of the casting within the mold and at least partially heat treat the casting while the casting is within the mold. 2. The method of claim 1 and wherein placing the mold in a heat treatment station further comprises placing the casting in an indexed position with a plurality of core openings of the casting aligned in a known, predefined alignment, and further heat treating the casting. 3. The method of claim 2 and further comprising the steps of: aligning the core openings of the casting with a plurality of nozzles; and directing a heated media from the plurality of nozzles at and into core openings. 4. The method of claim 2 and wherein placing the casting in an indexed position comprises positioning the casting at a first position with x, y and z axes of the casting oriented in a known first orientation, and wherein the core openings are in alignment with the plurality of nozzles. 5. The method of claim 2 and further comprising: placing the casting at a second position with x, y, and z axes of the casting oriented in a known, second orientation, different from the first orientation so that at least a portion of the core openings are in alignment with a second plurality of nozzles; and directing a fluid flow from the second plurality of nozzles at the core openings. 6. The method of claim 1 and further comprising: placing the casting in a first casting position with x, y, and z axes of the casting oriented in a known orientation; moving a plurality of nozzles to a first nozzle position in alignment with at least a plurality of core access openings formed in the casting; and moving at least a portion of the plurality of nozzles to a second nozzle position, wherein the portion of the plurality of nozzles is in alignment with at least a second plurality of core openings formed in the casting. 7. The method of claim 1 and wherein applying energy to the mold comprises directing radiant energy against the mold which absorbs the radiant energy, and heating the mold and casting from outside the mold inwardly. 8. The method of claim 1 and wherein applying energy to the mold comprises directing inductive energy from an induction energy source against the mold to heat the mold and casting from inside the mold outwardly. 9. The method of claim 1 and wherein applying energy to mold comprises moving the mold through a pressurized chamber, drawing a flow of oxygen gas through the mold to promote combustion of a combustible binder material of the mold, and heating the casting with the combustion of the binder and oxygen gas. 10. A system for manufacturing castings comprising: a series of molds in which a molten metal and a core are received to define and form the castings; a series of saddles adapted to receive the castings in a desired orientation having known, indexed position coordinates; and a heat treatment station in which the saddles, with the castings located in their known, indexed position therein, are received for heat treatment of the castings and core removal, wherein said heat treatment station including: at least one heating zone through which the saddles are moved with the castings oriented in predefined, known positions, for applying heat to the castings to heat treat the castings and cause the cores within the castings to be substantially dislodged from the castings. 11. The system of claim 10 and wherein said heat treatment station includes a plurality of nozzle stations each comprising a series of robotically operated nozzles adapted to move about the castings between at least first and second nozzle positions in alignment with a series of core openings formed in the castings for directing heat toward the castings from different directions to substantially break down and dislodge the cores from the castings. 12. The system of claim 10 and wherein said saddles each include a series of walls defining a casting receptacle and a plurality of locating devices positioned within said casting receptacle, so as to engage and guide the castings into their known, indexed positions having known position coordinates within said saddles. 13. The system of claim 12 and wherein said locating devices comprise guide pins and wherein the castings are formed in said molds with corresponding locating openings in which said guide pins are received for locating the castings in their known, indexed positions within said saddles. 14. The system of claim 10 and wherein said molds include an internal heating source for preheating said molds and at least partially heat treating the castings. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein said internal heating source comprises a heated fluid media received and/or circulated through said molds for heating said molds internally to a soak temperature for at least partially heat treating the castings therewithin. 16. The system of claim 12 and further comprising a radiant chamber positioned upstream from said heat treatment station and having at least one heat source, wherein heat is applied to the castings as they are received and move through said radiant chamber sufficient to arrest cooling of the castings to at least a process control temperature prior to the castings being moved into said heat treatment station. 17. The system of claim 10 and further comprising a radiant chamber positioned upstream from said heat treatment station and having at least one heat source, wherein heat is applied to the castings in said radiant chamber to arrest cooling of the castings to at least a process control temperature prior to the castings being moved into said heat treatment station. 18. The system of claim 10 and wherein said heat treatment station includes a fluid bed within which the molds are received and for purposes of temperature control, heat-up and removal and reclamation of sand from the core and mold. 