The invention provides methods and devices for detecting the presence of one or more target analytes in a sample employing a channel having affixed therein one or more binding partners for each target analyte. Assays are carried out by transporting the sample through the channel to each successive binding partner so that target analyte present in said sample binds to the corresponding binding partner. The sample is then transported beyond the binding partner(s), followed by detection of any target analyte bound to each binding partner. In one embodiment, binding efficiency is increased by the use of segmented transport, wherein a first bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample precedes the sample during transport and a second bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample follows the sample. Many configurations are possible for the device of the invention. A preferred device includes: a substrate with a channel formed in its surface, and a cover element that overlies and seals the channel. Binding partner(s) are affixed to the surface of the cover element facing the channel lumen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for detecting the presence of a first target analyte in a sample, said device comprising a substrate; a channel in a surface of said substrate; a cover element that overlies and seals said channel, said cover element having a first surface facing the channel; and a first binding partner for said first target analyte affixed to said first surface, wherein said cover element is removably attached to said substrate. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said channel is molded in a polymeric material. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein said polymeric material is a polydimethylsiloxane. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein said channel has a hydrophobic lumenal surface. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said channel has a cross-sectional diameter less than about 100 .mu.m or less. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said first surface of said cover element is hydrophilic. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein a second binding partner for a second target analyte is affixed to said first surface of said cover element at a location distinct from that of said first binding partner. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein at least about 100 different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations of said first surface of said cover element. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein said channel defines a serpentine path. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein a plurality of different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations of said first surface of said cover element, forming a two-dimensional array of different binding partners. 12. The device of claim 1, additionally comprising an electrode whereby a voltage can be applied to the electrode to induce transport of said first target analyte toward or away from said first binding partner. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein said electrode is attached to said first surface of said cover element, a permeation layer overlies said electrode, and said first binding partner is attached to said permeation layer. 14. The device of claim 11, additionally comprising a plurality of electrodes attached to said cover element whereby a voltage can be applied to each electrode to induce transport of a target analyte toward or away from a binding partner. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein each electrode underlies more than one different binding partner location. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein each electrode underlies a row of different binding partner locations in said two-dimensional array and wherein each row has a long axis that is generally perpendicular to the direction of fluid flow through said channel, whereby the successive application of a voltage to adjacent electrodes, is capable of inducing electrophoretic flow through said channel. 