An apparatus for calibrating a multi-gripper equipped accessor in an automated data storage library. More particularly, an apparatus for calibrating a multi-gripper equipped accessor in an automated data storage library, includes at least one additional sensor to calibrate each gripper. Also described is a method for calibrating a multi-gripper equipped accessor in an automated data storage library, wherein one or more additional grippers are calibrated to reduce the effect of tolerances in the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated data storage library, comprising: a plurality of storage shelves for storing data storage media; an accessor for moving said data storage media to and from said plurality of storage shelves; at least two grippers mounted on said accessor for selectively accessing said data storage media in said plurality of storage shelves; a first one of said grippers having a first sensor operatively associated with said first gripper for calibrating the relationship between said first gripper and one or more locations within said automated data storage library; and a second gripper of said at least two grippers having a second sensor operatively associated with said second gripper for calibrating the relationship between said second gripper and one or more locations within said automated data storage library and wherein said first and second calibration sensors are further used to determine the relationship between said first and second grippers. 2. An automated data storage library as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first calibration sensor is mounted on said first gripper. 3. An automated data storage library as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first and second calibration sensors read barcoded labels located on said data storage media. 4. An automated data storage library as claimed in claim 1, wherein said data storage media are selected from the group of media consisting of magnetic tape cartridges, cassettes, optical disk cartridges, ROM, WORM, RAM, hard drive PROM, and rewritable data media. 5. An automated data storage library as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first and second calibration sensors are each optical sensors. 6. An automated data storage library as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first and second calibration sensors are each barcode readers. 7. An automated data storage library as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least two grippers are calibrated independently of each other. 8. A method of calibrating an automated data storage library, comprising: providing a plurality of storage shelves storing data storage media; providing an accessor for moving said data storage media to and from said plurality of storage shelves; providing at least two grippers mounted on said accessor for selectively accessing said data storage media in said plurality of storage shelves; a first one of said grippers having a first sensor operatively associated with said first gripper for calibrating the relationship between said first gripper and one or more locations within said automated data storage library; and a second gripper of said at least two grippers having a second sensor operatively associated with said second gripper for calibrating the relationship between said second gripper and one or more locations within said automated data storage library and wherein said first and second calibration sensors are further used to determine the relationship between said first and second grippers. 9. A method of calibrating an automated data storage library as claimed in claim 8, wherein said first calibration sensor is mounted on said first gripper. 10. A method of calibrating an automated data storage library as claimed in claim 8, wherein said first and second calibration sensors read barcoded labels located on said data storage media. 11. A method of calibrating automated data storage library as claimed in claim 8, wherein said data storage media are selected from the group of media consisting of magnetic tape cartridges, cassettes, optical disk cartridges, ROM, WORM, RAM, hard drive PROM, and rewritable data media. 12. A method of calibrating an automated data storage library as claimed in claim 8, wherein said first and second calibration sensors are each optical sensors. 13. A method of calibrating an automated data storage library as claimed in claim 8, wherein said first and second calibration sensors are each barcode readers. 14. A method of calibrating an automated data storage library as claimed in claim 8, wherein said at least two grippers are calibrated independently of each other. 