An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a microprocessor that controls a power supply by a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform and dynamic reaction behavior to arc conditions defined by the control parameters. The welder has a controller for creating the signal and reading the parameters, a graphic user interface program controlled by input from a graphic user interface computer, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying the desired waveform and dynamic behavior and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change the waveform and/or the parameters and a digital communication link from the graphic user interface to the welder microprocessor controller for causing the welder to perform the desired waveform by controlling the signal. A number of script language files each defining a given type of waveform logic and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and graphical descriptive language to display a waveform to be implemented by the welder is used with an input stage for processing a selected one of the script files into graphic user interface components (readouts, charts, and/or panels) for operating the welder.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a pulse width modulator that controls a switching power supply under control of a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform and dynamic reaction behavior to arc conditions defined by said control parameters, said welder having a microprocessor controller and an operating program, for creating said signal and reading said parameters, a graphic user interface computer, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and dynamic behavior and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said desired waveform and/or said parameters and a communication link for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and dynamic behavior and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and a graphical construction program to display a waveform to be implemented by said welder, and an input stage for processing a selected one of said script files into graphic interface components for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 2. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 1 wherein said graphic user interface computer contains a JAVA virtual machine. 3. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 2 wherein said input stage is a compiler for converting said selected script file to a JAVA bytecode file. 4. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 3 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code. 5. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 2 wherein said input stage is a script interpreter. 6. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 5 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code. 7. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 2 wherein said input stage includes a first compiler to convert said script file into a JAVA source file and a second compiler to compile said JAVA source file into a JAVA bytecode file. 8. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 7 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code. 9. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 2 wherein said input stage is a first section configured as an interpreter to direct a selected script file directed to said graphic user interface program. 10. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 9 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code first as an intermediate product. 11. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 2 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code. 12. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 1 wherein said input stage is a compiler for converting said selected script file to a code native to the graphic user interface computer. 13. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 1 wherein said input stage is a script interpreter. 14. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 1 wherein said input stage includes a first compiler to convert said script file into a JAVA source file and a second compiler to compile said JAVA source file into a JAVA bytecode file. 15. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 1 wherein said input stage is a first section configured as an interpreter to direct a selected script file directed to said graphic interface computer and a second section for directing an operating program to said graphic interface computer. 16. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 15 wherein said second section includes a compiler to convert said operating program into native code for said graphic user interface program. 17. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 16 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code first as an intermediate product. 18. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 1, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by the welder. 19. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a pulse width modulator that controls a switching power supply under control of a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform defined by said control parameters, said welder having a microprocessor controller and an operating program, for creating said signal and reading said parameters, a graphic user interface computer controlled by input from a dedicated computer platform, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and a communication link for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and/or an input stage for processing a selected one of said script files into graphic user interface components for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 20. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 19 wherein said graphic interface computer contains a JAVA virtual machine. 21. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 20 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a JAVA bytecode. 22. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 20 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 23. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 19 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a native code. 24. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 19 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 25. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 19, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be performed by the welder. 26. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a pulse width modulator that controls a switching power supply under control of an signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform defined by said control parameters, said welder having a microprocessor controller and an operating program, for creating said signal and reading said parameters, a graphic user interface controlled by input from a graphic interface computer, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and a communication link for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and containing a graphical construction program to display a waveform to be implemented by said welder, and an input stage for directing a selected one of said script files to said dedicated platform for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 27. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 26 wherein said graphic interface computer platform is a JAVA virtual machine. 28. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 27 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a native code. 29. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 27 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a native code. 30. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 27 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 31. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 26 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 32. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 26, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by the welder. 33. A method of controlling an electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a pulse width modulator that controls a switching power supply under control of a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform defined by said control parameters, said welder having a microprocessor controller and an operating program, for creating said signal and reading said parameters, said method comprising: (a) providing an operating computer system controlled by input from a graphic interface computer, (b) providing a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and an I/O connection for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, (c) providing a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and/or a graphical construction program to display a waveform to be implemented by said welder, and, (d) directing a selected one of said script files to said graphic interface computer for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 34. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein said graphic interface computer contains a JAVA virtual machine. 35. A method as defined in claim 34 wherein said directing includes compiling said selected script file to a JAVA bytecode. 36. A method as defined in claim 35 further including: (e) converting said selected script file into JAVA source code. 37. A method as defined in claim 34 wherein said directing includes interpreting said selected script file. 38. A method as defined in claim 37 further including: (e) converting said selected script file into JAVA source code. 39. A method as defined in claim 34 further including: (e) converting said selected script file into JAVA source code. 40. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein said directing includes compiling said selected file to a code native to the platform. 41. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein said directing includes interpreting said selected script file. 42. A method as defined in claim 33, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by said welder. 43. A graphic user welder interface for directly controlling or monitoring a welding process, said welder interface being a Java graphic interface comprising at least one graphical widget defined by a scripting file loaded in run-time and a computer program for loading said scripting file into said welder interface, the scripting file configured as a text file containing specifications of a waveform used for the welding process. 44. A graphic interface as defined in claim 43 wherein said widget is selected from the class consisting of a slider, a text box, a switch, a choice, an interactive chart, a button, a panel or combinations thereof. 45. A graphic interface as defined in claim 43 wherein said scripting file incorporates the specifications of a welding process including at least one of arc behavior, heat input, metal transfer, arc stability or weld bead shape. 46. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a microprocessor and an operating program, that controls a power supply by a command signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform and dynamic reaction behavior to arc conditions defined by said control parameters, said welder having a controller for creating said signal and reading said parameters, a graphic user interface computer, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and dynamic behavior and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and a communication link for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said command signal, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and dynamic behavior and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and/or a graphical construction program to display a waveform to be implemented by said welder, and an input stage for processing a selected one of said script files into graphic interface components for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 47. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 46 wherein said graphic user interface computer contains a JAVA virtual machine. 48. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 46 wherein said input stage is a compiler for convert said selected script file to a code native to the graphic user interface computer. 49. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 46 wherein said input stage is a script interpreter. 50. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 46 wherein said input stage includes a first compiler to compile said script file into a JAVA source file and a second compiler to compile said JAVA source file into a JAVA bytecode file. 51. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 46 wherein said input stage is a first section configured as an interpreter to direct a selected script file directed to said graphic interface computer and a second section for directing an operating program to said graphic interface computer. 52. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 51 wherein said second section includes a compiler to convert said operating program into native code for said graphic user interface program. 53. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 52 wherein said selected script file is converted into JAVA source code first as an intermediate product. 54. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 46, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by the welder. 55. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a microprocessor and an operating program, that controls a power supply by a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform defined by said control parameters, said welder having a controller for creating said signal and reading said parameters, a graphic user interface computer controlled by input from a dedicated computer platform, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and a communication link for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and an input stage for processing a selected one of said script files into graphic user interface components for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 56. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 55 wherein said graphic interface computer contains a JAVA virtual machine. 57. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 56 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a JAVA bytecode. 58. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 57 herein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a native code. 59. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 56 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 60. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 55 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 61. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 55, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be performed by the welder. 62. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a microprocessor that controls a power supply by a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform defined by said control parameters, said welder having a controller and an operating program, for creating said signal and reading said parameters, a graphic user interface controlled by input from a graphic interface computer, a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and a communication link for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and containing a graphical construction program to display a waveform to be implemented by said welder, and an input stage for directing a selected one of said script files to said dedicated platform for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 63. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 62 wherein said graphic interface computer platform is a JAVA virtual machine. 64. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 63 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a native code. 65. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 63 wherein said input stage is a compiler to convert said selected file to a native code. 66. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 63 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 67. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 62 wherein said input stage is an interpreter. 68. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 62, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by the welder. 69. A method of controlling an electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a microprocessor and an operating program, that controls a power supply by a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform defined by said control parameters, said welder having a controller for creating said signal and reading said parameters, said method comprising: (a) providing an operating computer system controlled by input from a graphic interface computer, (b) providing a system with a first interface for an interactive display for displaying said desired waveform and at least one manipulative control parameter, a second interface for a manual data entry device to change said waveform and/or said parameters and an I/O connection for causing said welder to perform said desired waveform by controlling said signal, (c) providing a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type of waveform and containing a user manipulative variable table of control parameters and/or a graphical construction program to display a waveform to be implemented by said welder, and, (d) directing a selected one of said script files to said graphic interface computer for operating said welder, wherein the selected script file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 70. A method as defined in claim 69 wherein said graphic interface computer contains a JAVA virtual machine. 71. A method as defined in claim 70 wherein said directing includes compiling said selected script file to a JAVA bytecode. 72. A method as defined in claim 71 further including: (e) converting said selected script file into JAVA source code. 73. A method as defined in claim 70 wherein said directing includes interpreting said selected script file. 74. A method as defined in claim 73 further including: (e) converting said selected script file into JAVA source code. 75. A method as defined in claim 70 further including: (e) converting said selected script file into JAVA source code. 76. A method as defined in claim 69 wherein said directing includes compiling said selected file to a code native to the platform. 77. A method as defined in claim 69 wherein said directing includes interpreting said selected script file. 78. A method as defined in claim 69, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by said welder. 79. An electric arc welder for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by a microprocessor and an operating program, that controls a power supply by a signal so the output of the power supply traces a desired waveform in accordance with variables and waveform logic, said welder having a real time controller for creating said signal and reading at least some of said parameters, a number of script language files, which are text files containing specifications of welding waveforms for defining a given type waveform and containing a variable table and waveform logic in script language, a compiler to convert said variable table to native data structure of said real time control and said waveform logic into native code of said real time control and a stage to use said variable table code and said waveform logic code to operate said power supply of said welder by converting said script language file into a graphic user interface component to accompany said waveform logic and data structure, wherein the script language file is used to modify the desired waveform while not altering the operating program which controls the welder. 80. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 79 wherein said power supply is a switching power supply. 81. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 80 wherein said power supply is controlled by a pulse width modulator. 82. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 81 wherein said power supply includes a switch control operated at least about an 18 kHz switching frequency. 83. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 80 wherein said power supply includes a switch control operated at least about an 18 kHz switching frequency. 84. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 79, wherein said desired waveform is provided as a pre-built waveform template, and the desired waveform is configured to be edited to the waveform to be implemented by the welder. 