The invention generally relates to various aspects of a plasma process and, more specifically, to the monitoring of such plasma processes. One aspect relates to a plasma monitoring module that may be adjusted in at least some manner so as to re-evaluate a previously monitored plasma process. For instance, optical emissions data on a plasma process that was previously monitored by the plasma monitoring module may be replayed through the plasma monitoring module after making at least one adjustment in relation to the plasma monitoring module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for monitoring a plasma process, comprising the steps of: initiating a first plasma process within a first processing chamber; obtaining optical emissions data on said first plasma process; storing said optical emissions data from said obtaining step on a computer-readable storage medium system; executing a first monitoring step using a plasma monitoring module which is stored on said computer-readable storage medium system, said executing a first monitoring step comprising monitoring at least a first portion of said optical emissions data from said obtaining step; making at least one adjustment in relation to said plasma monitoring module after a completion of said executing a first monitoring step; and executing a second monitoring step using said plasma monitoring module, said executing a second monitoring step being initiated after said making at least one adjustment step, said executing a second monitoring step comprising monitoring at least a second portion of said optical emissions data from said storing step. 2. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said obtaining step is executed over a first wavelength region which includes at least wavelengths within a range from about 250 nanometers to about 1,000 nanometers; and said obtaining step further comprises obtaining said optical emissions data at least at every 1 nanometer throughout said first wavelength region and at least every 1 second during at least a substantial portion of said first plasma process. 3. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said first plasma process comprises a first endpoint which is when said first plasma process has affected a first predetermined result, wherein said first monitoring step comprises monitoring said at least a first portion of said optical emissions data for an occurrence of said first endpoint, and wherein said executing a second monitoring step comprises monitoring said at least a second portion of said optical emissions data for an occurrence of said first endpoint. 4. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said executing a first monitoring step comprises comparing said at least a first portion of said optical emissions data with optical emissions data from a prior execution of a second plasma process in the same said processing chamber, wherein said first and second plasma processes are of the same type, and wherein said second plasma process was conducted before said first plasma process; and said executing a second monitoring step comprises comparing at least a second portion of said optical emissions data with optical emissions data from said second plasma process. 5. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said first processing chamber is located within a first clean room, and wherein said executing a second monitoring step is executed outside of said first clean room. 6. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said first and second portions of said optical emissions data are selected from the group consisting of being the same or different. 7. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said first and second portions of said optical emissions data are each selected from the group consisting of an individual wavelength or a range of wavelengths. 8. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said executing first and second monitoring steps are each monitoring for an endpoint associated with said first plasma process. 9. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said executing first and second monitoring steps are each monitoring a plasma health associated with said first plasma process. 10. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said executing first and second monitoring steps are each monitoring an aspect selected from the group consisting of plasma health, endpoint, or both plasma health and endpoint. 11. A method, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said making at least one adjustment step comprises changing data reviewed by said plasma monitoring module, changing a monitoring technique used by said plasma monitoring module, changing a time-related function used by said plasma monitoring module, or any combination thereof. 12. A method for monitoring a plasma process, comprising the steps of: running a first plasma process within a first processing chamber; obtaining optical emissions data on said first plasma process; executing a first monitoring step comprising monitoring at least a portion of said optical emissions data from said obtaining step; replaying at least a portion of said optical emissions data from said obtaining step; and executing a second monitoring step comprising monitoring said at least a portion of said optical emissions data from said replaying step, wherein said second monitoring step differs in at least one respect from said first monitoring step. 13. A method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said first and second monitoring steps each monitor for an occurrence of a first endpoint associated with said first plasma process. 14. A method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said first and second monitoring steps each assess a health of a plasma used by said first plasma process. 15. A method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said first and second monitoring steps assess the same said optical emissions data. 16. A method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said first and second monitoring steps assess different said optical emissions data. 17. a method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said first and second monitoring steps are each executed by a common plasma monitoring module. 18. A method, as claimed claim 17, further comprising the step of: making at least one adjustment in relation to said plasma monitoring module after a completion of said first monitoring step and before initiating said second monitoring step, wherein said making at least one adjustment step comprises changing data reviewed by said plasma monitoring module, changing a monitoring technique used by said plasma monitoring module, changing a time-related function used by said plasma monitoring module, or any combination thereof. 