An I/O minienvirornent including a port door within an I/O port, and a system for removing the port door and pod door coupled thereto, and setting down the pod and port doors at a convenient location within the I/O minienvironment. After wafer processing has been completed and the wafers have been transferred back through the I/O port to the SMEF pod, the system may retrieve the port and pod doors, and return the port door to their sealing positions within the I/O port and cassette, respectively. In a preferred embodiment, the system for gripping and transporting the port and pod doors may be located on the back end of the end effector of the wafer handling robot within the I/O minienvironment. The back end of the end effector is the end of the end effector opposite that used to transport the wafers and/or cassette.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for transferring wafers into and out of a SMIF pod having a pod door releasably coupled to a pod shell, comprising: a processing tool having an interior region, including: an I/O port for allowing wafers to pass between the,SMIF pod and said interior region; and a port door releasably secured to said I/O port, said port door having a first and second side, said second side having a pair of latch keys for coupling/decoupling the pod door and the pod shell and for coupling/decoupling said port door with the pod door; and a robot having an end effector, said end effector including: a wafer access device for transferring wafers between the SMIF pod and said processing tool; and a port door gripping assembly for releasably securing said end effector to said first side of said port door so that said robot may transfer said port door between said I/O port and a predetermined position within the processing tool. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said port door forms a seal with said I/O port. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said port door further includes a bolt mechanism for releasably securing said port door to said I/O port. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said port door further includes a magnet for releasably securing said port door to said I/O port. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said port door gripping assembly comprises a magnet. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein said port door gripping assembly comprises a vacuum source. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein said first side of said port door includes a support hole. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein said end effector further includes a support device that protrudes into said support hole when said end effector is secured to said first side of said port door. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said end effector further includes a power couple device, said power couple device for supplying power to said port door so that said pair of latch keys may operate. 10. A wafer handling robot capable of transferring wafers between a SMIF pod and a processing tool, the SMIF pod having a pod door releasably secured to a pod shell, the processing tool having a port door releasably secured to an I/O port, the port door having a first side and a second side adapted to couple/decouple the pod door and pod shell and couple/decouple the port door and the pod door, the wafer handling robot comprising: a base; a first arm having first and second ends, said first end being operatively connected to said base; a second arm having first and second ends, said first end being operatively connected to said second end of said first arm; and an end effector operatively connected to said second end of said second arm, said end effector including: a wafer transfer mechanism adapted to transport wafers between the SMIF pod and the processing tool; and a port door gripping mechanism having a port door mating device and a power supply, said port door mating device releasably securing said end effector to the first side of the port door so that the wafer handling robot may transfer the port door between the I/O port and a predetermined position within the processing tool, said power supply providing power to the port door so that the port door may couple/decouple the pod door and pod shell and couple/decouple the port door and the pod door. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein said port door mating device comprises a magnet. 12. The system according to claim 10, wherein said port door mating device comprises a vacuum source. 13. The system according to claim 10, wherein the first side of the port door includes at least one support hole. 14. The system according to claim 13, wherein said end effector further includes at least one support device, said at least one support device protrudes into said at least one support hole when said end effector is secured to the first side of the port door. 15. A system for transferring workpieces, comprising: a container having a container door releasably secured to a container shell; a processing tool having a workpiece I/O port, said processing tool supporting said container such that said container door faces said workpiece I/O port; a port door having a first and second side and a latch assembly, said latch assembly releasably securing said port door to said workpiece I/O port, coupling/decoupling said container door and said container shell, and coupling/decoupling said container door and said port door; and a robot having an end effector, said end effector secured to said first side of said port door and having means for providing power to the port door so that said latch assembly may operate. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein said latch assembly comprises a pair of latch keys and a bolt mechanism, said pair of latch keys for coupling/decoupling said container door and said container shell and for coupling/decoupling said :container door and said port door, said bolt mechanism for releasably securing said port door and said I/O port. 17. The system according to claim 15, wherein said means for securing said end effector to said first side of said port door comprises a magnet. 18. The system according to claim 15, wherein said means for securing said end effector to said first side of said port door comprises a vacuum source. 19. The system according to claim 15, wherein said first side of said port door includes a support hole. 20. The system according to claim 19, wherein said end effector further includes a support device being adapted to protrude into said support hole. 21. The system according to claim 20, wherein said means for providing power to said port door is integrated into said support device. 