The effector of a robot is constructed with positioning pads at its distal end. The pads provide an accurate registration surface for engagement of the substrate. A pair of idler rollers, which slide along the longitudinal axis of the effector, is moved by an actuator into engagement with the substrate and the assembly urges the substrate against the positioning pads. A pair of wheels is mounted on a platform independent of the effector with one of the wheels driven by a motor. An optical sensor mounted with the wheels detects an orientation mark on the edge of the substrate and allows the driven wheel to rotate the substrate to its specified angular position.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm comprising: an effector for supporting said substrate, mounted on said robot arm, said effector extending longitudinally from a back end to a distal end; at least a pair of positioning pads fixed on the distal end to provide an accurate position reference for the substrate; a bracket having means for engaging said substrate to allow rotation of the substrate on the effector about an axis transverse to the effector, said bracket mounted to the effector for sliding motion along a central longitudinal axis of the effector; an actuator fixed to the effector and to said bracket to cause sliding movement of the engaging means along said longitudinal axis to position the substrate accurately on said positioning pads; an orientation module positioned adjacent to the distal end of the effector to allow engagement of the substrate edge, said module comprising: at least a pair of wheels one of which being rotatably driven about an axis transverse to the substrate, said wheels positioned to engage the substrate; a sensor for sensing the edge of the substrate and operating to locate an orientation notch on the edge of the substrate; and wherein rotation of the drive wheel rotates the substrate to allow said sensor to sense the notch and then to move the substrate to a predetermined angular position on the effector. 2. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging said substrate comprises at least a pair of idler rollers mounted on said bracket. 3. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1, wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 4. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1 wherein the orientation module is mounted independent of the robot. 5. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1 wherein the orientation module is mounted on a link of the robot below said effector. 6. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 5, further comprising a z axis drive motor operatively associated with the orientation module for causing movement of said orientation module in a direction transverse to the substrate, wherein said orientation module lifts the substrate from engagement with the positioning pads. 7. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 5, wherein said effector is mounted on the robot for unlimited rotation to enable the effector move the substrate into engagement with the wheels of the orientation module. 8. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1, wherein said actuator comprises a vacuum bellows operatively connected to the bracket of the idler rollers. 9. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1, wherein the positioning pads further comprise a raised step constructed on the positioning pads to accurately locate the substrate on the effector, and wherein said actuator pushes the substrate outward into engagement with the step. 10. Apparatus for aligning a substrate on a robot arm and orienting the angular position of the substrate on the robot arm, according to claim 1, further comprising: a second effector for supporting a second substrate, mounted on a second robot arm, said effector extending longitudinally from a back end to a distal end; a second pair of positioning pads fixed on the distal end to provide an accurate position reference for the second substrate; a second bracket having means for engaging said second substrate to allow rotation of the second substrate on the second effector about an axis transverse to the second effector, said second bracket mounted to the second effector for sliding motion along a central longitudinal axis of the second effector; a second actuator fixed to the second effector and to said second bracket to cause sliding movement of the engaging means along said longitudinal axis to positioning the second substrate accurately on said position pads; a second orientation module positioned adjacent to the distal end of the second effector to allow engagement of the second substrate edge, said second module comprising: at least a pair of wheels one of which being rotatably driven about an axis transverse to the second substrate, said wheels positioned to engage the second substrate; a sensor for sensing the edge of the second substrate and operating to locate an orientation notch on the edge of the second substrate; and wherein rotation of the drive wheel rotates the second substrate to allow said sensor to sense the notch and then to move the second substrate to a predetermined angular position on the second effector. 