An instrument guide that can compensate for surgical instruments that have different outer diameters. The instrument guide includes a shaft that has an inner channel adapted to receive a surgical instrument. The guide also has a leaf that can be deflected relative to the shaft to exert a spring force onto the instrument. The amount of leaf deflection is dependent upon the outer diameter of the surgical instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An instrument guide that can be inserted into a patient and guide a surgical instrument that has a diameter, comprising: a shaft that has an inner channel; and, a plurality of leaves that extend from said shaft, said leaves being separated by a space having an inner diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the surgical instrument so that said leaves move when the surgical instrument is inserted into the inner channel, each leaf has a tapered portion and a lip. 2. The instrument guide of claim 1, wherein said leaves are separated by a plurality of slots. 3. The instrument guide of claim 1, wherein said leaves exert a spring force on the surgical instrument. 4. An instrument guide assembly that can be inserted into a patient and support a surgical instrument that has a diameter, comprising: a port element that has an inner channel; and an instrument guide that can be inserted into said inner channel of said port element, said instrument guide having a shaft that has an inner channel, and a plurality of leaves that extend from said shaft, said leaves being separated by a space having an inner diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the surgical instrument so that said leaves move relative to said shaft when the surgical instrument is, inserted into the inner channel, each leaf has a tapered portion and a lip. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein said leaves are separated by a plurality of slots. 6. The assembly of claim 4, wherein said leaves exert a spring force on the surgical instrument. 7. The assembly of claim 4, wherein said port element is a trocar. 8. The assembly of claim 4, wherein said port element is a cannula. 9. A trocar that can guide a surgical instrument that has a diameter, comprising: a shaft that has an inner channel and, a plurality of leaves that extend from said shaft, said leaves being separated by a space having an inner diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the surgical instrument so that said leaves move relative to said shaft when the surgical instrument is inserted into the inner channel, each leaf has a tapered portion and a lip. 10. The trocar of claim 9, wherein said-leaves are separated by a plurality of slots. 