A wall-climbing robot or mobility platform able to ascend and descend various horizontal and vertical surfaces having a chassis, a rotor rotatable with respect to the chassis, one or more prominences on the rotor, and means for adhering to a surface attached to the prominences. The robot is able to make a transition from horizontal travel to vertical travel. In certain embodiments, the means for adhering to a wall is a pressure sensitive adhesive. In addition, multiple rotor configurations and radio-control are used for remote operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wall-climbing robot comprising: (a) a chassis, said chassis comprising a topside and an underside; (b) a rotor attached to said chassis and rotatable with respect to the chassis, said rotor comprising a radial prominence; (c) a foot attached to said prominence, said foot comprising means for adhering to a surface, the means for adhering comprising a pressure sensitive adhesive; and (d) an active drive means operatively connected to said rotor. 2. The wall-climbing robot of claim 1 further comprising an element attached to the underside of said chassis, said element comprising means for adhering to a surface. 3. The wall-climbing robot of claim 1 wherein said rotor further comprises a plurality of prominences. 4. The wall-climbing robot of claim 3 wherein said prominences are substantially equispaced around the rotor. 5. The wall-climbing robot of claim 3 further comprising a plurality of feet with a foot attached to each of said plurality of prominences. 6. The wall-climbing robot of claim 3, wherein said prominences are positioned at substantially equal radii around the axis of the rotor. 7. The wall-climbing robot of claim 5, wherein said feet are positioned at substantially equal radii around the axis of the rotor. 8. The wall-climbing robot of claim 1, wherein said means for adhering comprises an adhesive of polymerizing styrene, butadiene naphthenic oil, calcium carbonate, and hydrogenated polyterpene resin. 9. The wall-climbing robot of claim 1, wherein said rotor comprises a hub, a leg connected to said hub, and a foot connected to said leg. 10. The wall-climbing robot of claim 9, wherein said robot further comprises a plurality of legs and a plurality of feet. 11. The wall-climbing robot of claim 3, wherein a maximum of two prominences on said rotor are able to contact a surface at any time. 12. The wall-climbing robot of claim 5, wherein a maximum of two feet on said rotor are able to contact a surface at any time. 13. The wall-climbing robot of claim 1 further comprising a means for the remote control of said active drive means. 14. The wall-climbing robot of claim 1 wherein a foot contacts a surface over less than half of a revolution of the rotor. 15. A wall-climbing robot comprising: (a) a chassis; (b) a first rotor attached to said chassis and rotatable with respect to the chassis, said first rotor comprising a first radial prominence; (c) a second rotor attached to said chassis and rotatable with respect to the chassis, said second rotor comprising a second radial prominence; (d) a first foot attached to said first radial prominence, said first foot comprising means for adhering to a surface, the means for adhering comprising a pressure sensitive adhesive, and a second foot attached to said second radial prominence, said second foot comprising means for adhering to a surface, the means for adhering comprising a pressure sensitive adhesive; and (e) an active drive means operatively connected to said first rotor and to said second rotor. 16. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15, wherein said means for adhering comprises an adhesive of polymerizing styrene, butadiene naphthenic oil, calcium carbonate, and hydrogenated polyterpene resin. 17. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15, wherein said first rotor comprises a first plurality of prominences and a first plurality of feet attached to said first plurality of prominences, and said second rotor comprises a second plurality of prominences and a second plurality of feet attached to said second prominences. 18. A method of using the wall-climbing robot of claim 17, wherein no fewer than one foot on each of said first rotor and said second rotor contacts a surface at any time. 19. The wall-climbing robot of claim 17, wherein at least two feet of said first plurality of feet are able to contact a surface during a least a small arc of a revolution of said first rotor. 20. The wall-climbing robot of claim 19, wherein no more than two feet of the first plurality of feet contact a surface at any time. 21. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15 further comprising a means for the remote control of said active drive means. 22. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15 further comprising a means for the remote control of said active drive means. 23. The wall-climbing robot of claim 17, wherein said first plurality of prominences are equispaced around said first rotor. 24. The wall-climbing robot of claim 23 wherein said first plurality of feet are positioned at substantially equal radii around the axis of the first rotor. 25. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15 further comprising an axle attached to said chassis, wherein said first rotor is attached proximate to an end of said axle. 26. The wall-climbing robot of claim 25 wherein said second rotor is attached proximate to an end of said axle. 27. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15 further comprising a skid mounted to said chassis able to contact a surface. 28. The wall-climbing robot of claim 15 further comprising a roller connected to said chassis able to contact a surface. 29. The wall-climbing robot of claim 27, wherein said skid is substantially remote from said first rotor. 30. The wall-climbing robot of claim 28, wherein said roller is substantially remote from said first rotor. 31. A wall-climbing robot comprising: (a) a chassis; (b) a first rotor attached to said chassis and rotatable with respect to the chassis, said first rotor comprising a first radial prominence; (c) a second rotor attached to said chassis and rotatable with respect to the chassis, said second rotor comprising a second radial prominence; (d) a first foot attached to said first radial prominence, said first foot comprising means for adhering to a surface, the means for adhering comprising a pressure sensitive adhesive, and a second foot attached to said second radial prominence, said second foot comprising means for adhering to a surface, the means for adhering comprising a pressure sensitive adhesive; and (e) a first active drive means operatively connected to said first rotor, and a second active drive means operatively connected to said second rotor. 32. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31, wherein said means for adhering comprises an adhesive of polymerizing styrene, butadiene naphthenic oil, calcium carbonate, and hydrogenated polyterpene resin. 33. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31, wherein said first rotor comprises a first plurality of prominences and a first plurality of feet attached to said first plurality of prominences, and said second rotor comprises a second plurality of prominences and a second plurality of feet attached to said second prominences. 34. A method of using the wall-climbing robot of claim 33, wherein no fewer than one foot on each of said first rotor and said second rotor contacts a surface at any time. 35. The wall-climbing robot of claim 33, wherein at least two feet of said first plurality of feet are able to contact a surface during a least a small arc of a revolution of said first rotor. 36. The wall-climbing robot of claim 35, wherein no more than two feet of the first plurality of feet contact a surface at any time. 37. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31 further comprising a means for the remote control of said active drive means. 38. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31 further comprising a means for the remote control of said active drive means. 39. The wall-climbing robot of claim 33, wherein said first plurality of prominences are equispaced around said first rotor. 40. The wall-climbing robot of claim 39 wherein said first plurality of feet are positioned at substantially equal radii around the axis of the first rotor. 41. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31 further comprising an axle attached to said chassis, wherein said first rotor is attached proximate to an end of said axle. 42. The wall-climbing robot of claim 41 wherein said second rotor is attached proximate to an end of said axle. 43. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31 further comprising a skid mounted to said chassis able to contact a surface. 44. The wall-climbing robot of claim 31 further comprising a roller connected to said chassis able to contact a surface. 45. The wall-climbing robot of claim 43, wherein said skid is substantially remote from said first rotor. 46. The wall-climbing robot of claim 44, wherein said roller is substantially remote from said first rotor. 