An apparatus and method for measuring viscosity or related properties of fluid samples in parallel is disclosed. The apparatus includes a plurality of tubes and reservoirs in fluid communication with the tubes. The tubes provide flow paths for the fluid samples, which are initially contained within the reservoirs. The apparatus also includes a mechanism for filling the reservoirs with the fluid samples, and a device for determining volumetric flow rates of fluid samples flowing from the reservoirs through the plurality of tubes simultaneously. The disclosed apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least five fluid samples simultaneously. Useful reservoirs and tubes include syringes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring viscosity of a plurality of fluid samples, comprising the steps of: a) providing an instrument including: a three-axis robot being adapted for translation between a plurality of different samples; a tube associated with the robot including a first end and second end, the tube providing a flow path for the fluid samples, the tube having a predefined length terminating at the first end with a tip adapted for aspirating and dispensing the fluid samples; a barrel defining a reservoir in fluid communication with the tube, the barrel being connected to the tube via a hub; means for filling the reservoir with a fluid sample; means for flowing the fluid sample out of the reservoir; means for determining a pressure in the reservoir as the fluid sample flows out of the reservoir; data acquisition means for receiving information from the means for determining a pressure in the reservoir and communicating the information to a computer; b) filling the reservoir with a first fluid sample; c) flowing the first fluid sample out of the reservoir; d) determining the pressure in the reservoir as the first fluid sample is flowed out of the reservoir; e) calculating viscosity for the first fluid sample using the Hagen-Poiseulle equation. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the hub is a luer hub. 3. A method as in claim 2 wherein the hub has an enlarged flanged head portion spaced apart from an enlarged body portion by a neck. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the robot comprises at least two arms capable of working in parallel to simultaneously determine the viscosity of a plurality of fluid samples. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein the fluid sample is from a combinatorial array of samples that are varied in a predetermined manner. 6. A method as in claim 1 further comprising the step of: (f) cleaning the tube and barrel between each fluid sample. 7. A method as in claim 1 wherein the fluid sample includes a polymer. 8. A method as in claim 7 wherein the polymer is in a solution. 9. A method as in claim 8 wherein the polymer is molten. 10. A method as in claim 7, further comprising the step of: (f) measuring the molecular weight of the polymer. 11. A method for measuring viscosity of a plurality of fluid samples, comprising the steps of: a) providing an instrument including: a three-axis robot being adapted for translation between a plurality of different fluid samples; a tube associated with the robot including a first end and second end, the tube providing a flow path for the fluid samples, the tube having a predefined length terminating at the first end with a tip adapted for aspirating and dispensing the fluid samples; a barrel defining a reservoir in fluid communication with the tube, the barrel being connected to the tube via a luer hub; means for aspirating a fluid sample into the reservoir; means for flowing the fluid sample out of the reservoir; a pressure sensor in the reservoir for determining pressure in the reservoir as the fluid sample flows out of the reservoir; A/D data acquisition means for receiving information from the sensor and communicating the information to a computer; b) filling the reservoir with a first fluid sample; c) flowing the first fluid sample out of the reservoir; d) determining the pressure in the reservoir as the first fluid sample is flowed out of the reservoir; e) calculating viscosity for the first fluid sample using the Hagen-Poiseulle equation. 12. A method as in claim 1 wherein the fluid sample includes a polymer. 13. A method as in claim 12, further comprising the step of: (f) measuring the molecular weight of the polymer. 14. A method for measuring viscosity of a plurality of fluid samples, comprising the steps of: a) providing an instrument including: a three-axis robot having an arm adapted for translation between a plurality of different fluid samples; a tube fitted on the arm of the robot including a first end and second end, the tube providing a flow path for the fluid samples, the tube having a predefined length terminating at the first end with a tip adapted for aspirating and dispensing the fluid samples; a barrel defining a reservoir in fluid communication with the tube, a syringe pump for aspirating a fluid sample into the reservoir; means for flowing the fluid sample out of the reservoir; a pressure sensor in the reservoir for determining pressure in the reservoir as the fluid sample flows out of the reservoir; A/D data acquisition means for receiving information from the sensor and communicating the information to a computer; b) providing an array of at least 8 different fluid samples from a combinatorial library; c) filling the reservoir with a first fluid sample from the array; d) flowing the first fluid sample out of the reservoir; e) determining the pressure in the reservoir as the first fluid sample is flowed out of the reservoir; f) calculating viscosity for the first fluid sample using the Hagen-Poiseulle equation; g) performing the steps (c)-(f) for a plurality of remaining samples in the array; wherein the measurement time for each sample is about 10 seconds to about one minute. 15. A method as in claim 1 wherein the fluid sample includes a polymer. 16. A method as in claim 12, further comprising the step of: (f) measuring the molecular weight of the polymer. 