A mold spraying system for emitting one or more sprayable materials onto portions of a mold, such as a die-cast mold, while the mold is located in a molding machine. The spraying system has an emitter, such as a spray head, for directing the one or more materials onto portions of each half of the mold when the mold is in an opened position between molding cycles of the molding machine. The spray head is connected to a manipulator for positioning the spray head between the mold halves. A pressure boosting unit is employed to ensure that the sprayable materials are supplied to the spray head at a sufficient pressure, notwithstanding any system pressure losses and/or the high frequency of spraying operations required to be performed as a result of a short molding machine cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of ensuring that a sprayable material is consistently supplied to the emitter of a mold spraying system at a sufficient pressure, said method comprising: providing a pressurized source of said sprayable material, said source connected to said emitter by a conduit; locating a chamber at some point between said source of said sprayable material and said emitter, such that said conduit passes therethrough; coupling a force-exerting cylinder to said chamber; providing a control device for actuating said force-exerting cylinder in preparation for operation of said emitter; and providing a speed control device for regulating the speed of said force-exerting cylinder; whereby said force-exerting cylinder exerts a force on said material in said chamber as required to cause said material to be consistently transported to said emitter at substantially some predetermined pressure. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a solenoid valve in electronic communication with said control device for actuating said force-exerting cylinder. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising prohibiting the flow of sprayable material of increased pressure from said chamber toward said source. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said sprayable material is supplied to said emitter at a substantially constant pressure. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein more than one sprayable material is supplied to said emitter. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein each of said sprayable materials passes through said chamber. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein only one, or selected ones, of said sprayable materials passes through said chamber. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said pressurized source of sprayable material is located remotely from said emitter. 9. A method of ensuring that an emitter of a mold spraying system is able to consistently spray one or more sprayable materials onto a mold or die at an adequate pressure, said method comprising: providing a pressurized source of said one or more sprayable materials; providing an emitter located to spray said one or more sprayable materials onto a die or mold for treatment thereof; connecting said pressurized source of said one or more sprayable materials to said emitter by a conduit; determining a minimum pressure at which said emitter must expel said one or more sprayable materials in order to properly treat said die or mold; locating a pressure boosting device at some point between said pressurized source of said one or more sprayable materials and said emitter, such that said pressure boosting device is in communication with said conduit, said pressure boosting device further comprising; a chamber for receiving an amount of sprayable material(s) from said pressurized source, via said conduit, a force-exerting cylinder coupled to said chamber for reducing the volume thereof, a control device for actuating said force-exerting cylinder, and a regulating means for controlling the amount of force that said force exerting cylinder exerts on said sprayable material(s) within said chamber; whereby said force-exerting cylinder exerts a force on said sprayable material in said chamber as required to cause said sprayable material to be consistently transported to said emitter at a pressure equal to or greater than said minimum pressure; and whereby said one or more sprayable materials are consistently expelled from said emitter at an adequate pressure for properly spraying said die or mold, even when the pressure of said one or more sprayable materials supplied by said pressurized source is less than said minimum pressure. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising providing a solenoid valve in electronic communication with said control device for operating said force-exerting cylinder. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising prohibiting the flow of sprayable material of increased pressure from said chamber toward said source. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein said one or more sprayable materials are supplied to said emitter at a substantially constant pressure. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein each of said one or more sprayable materials passes through said chamber. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein only one, or selected ones, of said one or more sprayable materials passes through said chamber. 15. The method o f claim 9, wherein said pressurized source of sprayable material is located remotely from said emitter. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein said regulating means is a speed controller that controls the speed at which said force-exerting cylinder advances into said chamber. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said speed controller also controls the speed at which said force-exerting cylinder retracts from said chamber. 