An apparatus and method for supplying multi-color powder paint material to an applicator in which at least one canister is used. This invention can be utilized with multiple or with a single color of powder paint material. The preferred system includes two canisters that alternate in supplying powder to the applicator. While one canister supplies powder to the applicator, the other canister is purged of the previous material and filled with the next material to be sprayed. The canister has an interior sized to store a predetermined quantity of powder material. During operation, a powder transfer pump and a color changer transfer powder material from a storage container/hopper to the canister interior. A venturi pump then supplies the applicator with powder. After the object is painted, purge air is opened and the canister is purged of the previous material. The canister is then ready to start another cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A canister for supplying a selected color powder paint material to an applicator in a powder paint delivery system comprising: a hollow housing for storing a powder paint material; an inlet line in fluid communication with an interior of said housing and adapted to be connected to an outlet of a color changer; a porous plate disposed in said housing separating said housing interior into a fluidization air plenum and a powder paint material storage portion; a fluidization air line in fluid communication with said fluidization air plenum for supplying air to suspend powder paint material in said storage portion; a purge air line in fluid communication with said storage portion; and a dump valve in fluid communication with said storage portion, whereby when air is supplied through said purge air line and said dump valve is opened, any powder paint material in said storage portion is expelled through said dump valve thereby cleaning said storage portion prior to receiving a different color powder paint material. 2. The canister according to claim 1 including an outlet line in fluid communication with the interior of said housing and an applicator. 3. The canister according to claim 1 including a powder material transfer means attached to said outlet line for transferring the powder paint material from said housing to the applicator. 4. The canister according to claim 1 wherein said powder material transfer means is one of a venturi pump system and a dense phase transfer system. 