Fastener delivery apparatus for automatically selecting and delivering fasteners such as rivets to a setting tool. The fasteners are pre-loaded in a package and dispense via at least one fastener delivery tube that interconnects the setting tool to a fastener feeder device. The fastener feeder device releases selected fasteners from the package into the delivery tube. The fasteners are transportable individually or in groups in the tube from the feeder device to the tool. A transfer station attached to the tool or the delivery tube transfers a fastener from the delivery apparatus into the tool, the transfer station being moveable between a first position in which an exit of the transfer station is adjacent to the tool so that a delivered fastener may be inserted by the transfer station into the tool and a second position in which it is clear of the tool so as to permit the tool or a portion thereof to move towards a workpiece to insert a loaded fastener. The delivery tube has wear resistant elements. The apparatus allows smooth, rapid and reliable delivery of fasteners of various sizes and types to the nose of a setting tool in any particular order and provides all the fastener types for any particular work cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fastener feeder assembly for a fastener delivery apparatus comprising a sealed container of fasteners and a hopper having at least one aperture into which the sealed container of fasteners is releasably secured, a gate which is moveable relative to the hopper between positions which open and close the at least one aperture, a reservoir into which released fasteners are dispensed, characterised in that the container has a frangible seal, the assembly further comprises means to check that the contents of the container are correct and means to break the frangible seal, so that when the feeder assembly is satisfied that the contents are correct so as to release the fasteners, the gate is moved to the open position to pass the fasteners to the reservoir. 2. A fastener feeder assembly according to claim 1, wherein the container has a plurality of notches that identify the contents and a checking device is provided to detect the presence of the notches to ensure the contents of the container are correct. 3. A fastener feeder assembly according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the gate is rotatable relative to the hopper between the open and closed positions. 4. A fastener feeder assembly according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the container has a lip by which it is releasably securable under an edge of the at least one aperture. 5. A fastener feeder assembly according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the container has a bar code representing information relating to the fasteners in the container and the assembly further comprises a bar code reader for reading said information and passing it to a controlling computer. 6. A fastener feeder assembly according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the container has a pull strip. 7. A fastener feeder assembly according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the hopper has a first position where it may release fasteners into said reservoir. 8. A fastener feeder assembly according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the hopper has a plurality of apertures into each of which a sealed container of fasteners is releasably secured and said gate is moveable between each of said apertures to open or close them in turn. 