A method and apparatus are provided for adhesive bonding of a backing plate for a sensor assembly to a vehicle window, especially a windscreen of a passenger car or truck. The backing plate has an adhesive layer and is heated at least in the area of the adhesive layer by a heating device until the adhesive layer is softened sufficiently to carry out adhesive bonding. The backing plate is transferred into a contact pressure device and the contact pressure device presses the backing plate with the adhesive layer on to the vehicle window for a predetermined length of time. In order to improve the usability of such a method in the context of mass production, it is provided that the heating device emits infrared radiation, heating of the adhesive layer being carried out until it has softened sufficiently by positioning the backing plate with the adhesive layer facing the heating device at a close spacing for a predetermined length of time.
Claims What is claimed: 1. Method for the adhesive bonding of a backing plate for a sensor assembly to a vehicle window, especially a windscreen of a passenger car or truck, the backing plate having an adhesive layer and being heated at least in the area of the adhesive layer by a heating device until the adhesive layer is sufficiently softened for the formation of an adhesive bonded connection, the backing plate being transferred into a contact pressure device, the contact pressure device pressing the backing plate with the adhesive layer on to the vehicle window for a predetermined length of time, wherein the heating device has a heater operable to emit infrared radiation, heating of the layer of adhesive being carried out until it has softened sufficiently by positioning the backing plate with the adhesive layer facing the heater relatively close to the heater for a predetermined length of time, and wherein the backing plate is preheated by a preheating device before being transferred to the heating device. 2. Method according to claim 1, wherein, before it is transferred to the heating device, the backing plate is arranged in a storage container, in which at least one backing plate is provided. 3. Method according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive layer of the backing plate is provided with a protective film, which is removed prior to softening of the adhesive layer by the heating device. 4. Method according to claim 2, wherein the adhesive layer of the backing plate is provided with a protective film, which is removed prior to softening of the adhesive layer by the heating device. 5. Method according to claim 4, wherein the protective film is affixed to the storage container in such a way that the protective film is automatically stripped from the adhesive layer when the backing plate is taken out of storage container. 6. Method according to claim 5, wherein the protective film is adhesively bonded to the storage container. 7. Method according to claim 5, wherein the protective film is adhesively bonded to a film substrate, which is detachably fixed to the storage container, especially by clipping. 8. Method according to claim 1, wherein the contact pressure device has a robotic arm, which positions the backing plate at the heater of the heating device serving to emit infrared radiation, before it is pressed on to the vehicle window. 9. Method for the adhesive bonding of a backing plate for a sensor assembly to a vehicle window, especially a windscreen of a passenger car or truck, the backing plate having an adhesive layer and being heated at least in the area of the adhesive layer by a heating device until the adhesive layer is sufficiently softened for the formation of an adhesive bonded connection, the backing plate being transferred into a contact pressure device, the contact pressure device pressing the backing plate with the adhesive layer on to the vehicle window for a predetermined length of time, wherein the heating device has a heater operable to emit infrared radiation, heating of the layer of adhesive being carried out until it has softened sufficiently by positioning the backing plate with the adhesive layer facing the heater relatively close to the heater for a predetermined length of time, and wherein heating of the adhesive layer is carried out until it is sufficiently softened by routing a traverse path for transferring the backing plate into the contact pressure device along the heater, so that the adhesive layer is exposed to the infrared radiation. 10. Method of bonding a sensor assembly backing plate having an adhesive layer to a vehicle window comprising: heating the adhesive layer by infrared radiation, and preheating the backing plate and adhesive layer at a separate location from and prior to said heating step, pressing the backing plate with the adhesive layer onto a vehicle window surface. 11. Method according to claim 10, wherein said heating includes: placing the backing plate with the adhesive layer at a close spacing from a heating device operable to emit infrared radiation, and operating the heating device to emit infrared radiation for a predetermined time period. 12. Method according to claim 11, wherein said predetermined time period is less than one minute. 13. Method according to claim 12, wherein said predetermined time period is less than 30 seconds. 14. Method according to claim 13, wherein said predetermined time period is approximately 20 seconds. 15. Method according to claim 10, wherein said preheating includes use of infrared radiation. 16. Method of bonding a sensor assembly backing plate having an adhesive layer to a vehicle window comprising: storing said backing plate in a storage container; preheating the backing plate while it is in said storage container; moving the backing plate away from the storage container to a location where heating of the adhesive layer is carried out; heating the adhesive layer by infrared radiation, and pressing the backing plate with the adhesive layer onto a vehicle window surface. 17. Method according to claim 16, wherein the adhesive layer of the backing plate is provided with a protective film, which is removed prior to softening of the adhesive layer by the heating device. 18. Method according to claim 17, wherein the protective film is affixed to the storage container in such a way that the protective film is automatically stripped from the adhesive layer when the backing plate is taken out of storage container. 19. Method according to claim 18, wherein the protective film is adhesively bonded to the storage container. 20. Method according to claim 18, wherein the protective film is adhesively bonded to a film substrate, which is detachably fixed to the storage container, especially by clipping. 21. Method according to claim 20, comprising using a robot device to move the backing plate from the storage container to the heating device and to a pressing device operable to carry out said pressing onto a vehicle window. 22. Apparatus for bonding a sensor assembly backing plate having an adhesive layer to a vehicle window comprising: means for heating the adhesive layer by infrared radiation; means for preheating the backing plate and adhesive layer at a separate location from and prior to said heating; and means for pressing the backing plate with the adhesive layer onto a vehicle window surface. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said heating includes: means for placing the backing plate with the adhesive layer at a close spacing from the means for heating, wherein the means for heating is a heating device operable to emit infrared radiation, and means for operating the heating device to emit infrared radiation for a predetermined time period. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein said predetermined time period is less than one minute. 25. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said preheating includes use of infrared radiation. 26. Apparatus according to claim 22 comprising: a storage container for storing at least one of said backing plates having an adhesive layer thereon, means for transferring said preheated backing plate to said means for heating, and means for transferring said heated backing plate to the means for pressing, wherein said means for preheating preheats said at least one backing plate while in said storage container, and whereby said bonding of said backing plate to a vehicle window can be rapidly carried out in an assembly line operation. 