Methods of detecting antibodies to one or more ganglioside(s) of interest in a sample are disclosed which comprise using a solid-phase reactant having carbonyl groups attached thereon, and the ganglioside(s) of interest linked to the solid-phase reactant by an amide bond between an amino group of the ganglioside of interest and a carbonyl group attached to the solid-phase reactant. The methods of detecting antibodies to ganglioside(s) of interest can be used in methods of diagnosing neuropathies in an individual.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved method of determining in a test sample the amount of antibody to at least one ganglioside of interest, in which the amount of antibody is determined by performing an assay using a solid phase reactant, wherein the improvement comprises using a modified solid-phase reactant having carbonyl groups attached thereon and ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant by an amide bond between an amino group of the ganglioside of interest and a carbonyl group attached to the modified solid-phase reactant. 2. The method of claim 1, comprising performing an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to determine the amount of antibody to the ganglioside of interest. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the ganglioside of interest is selected from the group consisting of: asialo GM ganglioside, GM1 ganglioside, GM2 ganglioside, GM3 ganglioside, GD1a ganglioside, GD1B ganglioside, GD2 ganglioside, GD3 ganglioside, GQ1b ganglioside, and GT1b ganglioside. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of antibody to more than one ganglioside of interest is determined, and wherein each ganglioside of interest is linked to the modified solid-phase reactant by an amide bond between an amino group of the ganglioside of interest and a carbonyl group attached to the modified solid-phase reactant. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the gangliosides of interest are each selected from the group consisting of: asialo GM ganglioside, GM1 ganglioside, GM2 ganglioside, GM3 ganglioside, GD1a ganglioside, GD1B ganglioside, GD2 ganglioside, GD3 ganglioside, GQ1b ganglioside, and GT1b ganglioside. 6. A method of determining in a test sample the amount of antibody to at least one ganglioside of interest, comprising the steps of: a) providing a ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant, the ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant comprising a modified solid-phase reactant having carbonyl groups attached thereon and the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant by an amide bond between an amino group of the ganglioside of interest and a carbonyl group attached to the modified solid-phase reactant; b) contacting the ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant with a test sample, thereby forming a contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant; c) maintaining the contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant under appropriate conditions to allow antibody to the ganglioside of interest, if present in the sample, to bind to the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant; and d) determining the amount of antibody to the ganglioside of interest that is bound to the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the ganglioside of interest is selected from the group consisting of: asialo GM ganglioside, GM1 ganglioside, GM2 ganglioside, GM3 ganglioside, GD1a ganglioside, GD1B ganglioside, GD2 ganglioside, GD3 ganglioside, GQ1b ganglioside, and GT1b ganglioside. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the modified solid-phase reactant additionally comprises at least one control antigen attached to the modified solid-phase reactant. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the control antigen is selected from the group consisting of: a glycolipid, a glycoprotein, and a carbohydrate. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the solid-phase reactant is a microliter plate. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein the amount of antibody to the ganglioside of interest that is bound to the ganglioside of interest attached to the modified solid-phase reactant is determined by incubating the contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant with a developing reagent. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the developing reagent comprises a detection antibody that binds to antibody to the ganglioside of interest. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the detection antibody is conjugated to an enzyme. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the detection antibody is conjugated to a fluorophore. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the detection antibody is iodinated. 16. A method of determining in a test sample the amount of antibody to more than one ganglioside of interest, comprising the steps of: a) providing a ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant, the ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant comprising a modified solid-phase reactant having carbonyl groups attached thereon and each ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant by an amide bond between an amino group of each ganglioside of interest and a carbonyl group attached to the modified solid-phase reactant; b) contacting the ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant with a test sample, thereby forming a contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant; c) maintaining the contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant under appropriate conditions to allow antibody to each ganglioside of interest, if present in the sample, to bind to a ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant; and d) determining the amount of antibody to each ganglioside of interest that is bound to the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the gangliosides of interest are each selected from the group consisting of: asialo GM ganglioside, GM1 ganglioside, GM2 ganglioside, GM3 ganglioside, GD1a ganglioside, GD1B ganglioside, GD2 ganglioside, GD3 ganglioside, GQ1b ganglioside, and GT1b ganglioside. 18. A method of determining in a test sample the amount of antibody specific to at least one ganglioside of interest, comprising the steps of: 1) providing a ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant, the ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant comprising a modified solid-phase reactant having carbonyl groups attached thereon, the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant by an amide bond between an amino group of the ganglioside of interest and a carbonyl group attached to the modified solid-phase reactant, and a control antigen linked to the modified solid-phase reactant; b) contacting the ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant with a test sample, thereby forming a contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant; 3) maintaining the contacted ganglioside modified solid-phase reactant under appropriate conditions to allow antibody to the ganglioside of interest, if present in the sample, to bind to the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant and to allow antibody to the control antigen, if present in the sample, to bind to the control antigen linked to the modified solid-phase reactant; d) determining the amount of antibody to the ganglioside of interest that is bound to the ganglioside of interest linked to the modified solid-phase reactant; e) determining the amount of antibody to the control antigen that is bound to the control antigen linked to the modified solid-phase reactant; and f) subtracting the amount of antibody to the control antigen from the amount of antibody to the ganglioside of interest, wherein the difference is equal to the amount of antibody specific to the ganglioside of interest. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the ganglioside of interest is selected from the group consisting of: asialo GM ganglioside, GM1 ganglioside, GM2 ganglioside, GM3 ganglioside, GD1a ganglioside, GD1B ganglioside, GD2 ganglioside, GD3 ganglioside, GQ1b ganglioside, and GT1b ganglioside. 