On joining a fibre-reinforced plastic part, such as a plastic fibre-reinforced robot arm, to a functional element such as a gear, as a result of the flow characteristics of the plastic in the case of a high pressing action or high pressures, the joints are no longer stable or resistant and instead tend to loosen. To obviate this problem, the invention provides a fibre-reinforced plastic part, in which several metallic parts (6) engage through at least one fibre-reinforced shoulder (4). On one side of the shoulder or shoulders (4) is provided at least one metallic abutment (8) engaging over several metallic parts (6) and a functional element (2) is braced from the opposite side of the shoulder or shoulders (4) with the abutment (8) against the front ends (6a), facing the latter, of metallic parts (6).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fiber-reinforced plastic part, such as a robot arm, for holding a functional element, such as a gear mechanism, the plastic part comprising: at least one fiber-reinforced shoulder or shoulders; a plurality of metallic parts extending through said at least one fiber-reinforced shoulder or shoulders; at least one said metallic abutment which extends over said plurality of said metallic parts, said metallic abutment being arranged on one side of said shoulder or shoulders, the functional element being braced with said abutment from an opposite side of said shoulder against front sides of said metallic parts, said front sides facing said functional element. 2. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that bracing takes place by screws. 3. Plastic part according to claim 2, characterized in that the screws are cap screws. 4. Plastic part according to claim 2, characterized in that bracing takes place by means of screw-nut joints. 5. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that several metallic parts engaging through the shoulder or shoulders and said abutment are constructed in one piece with one another. 6. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that the metallic parts are sleeves. 7. Plastic part according to claim 2, characterized in that said abutment and said screws are constructed in one piece with one another. 8. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that the metallic parts are constructed in one piece with threaded bolts and said abutment, the metallic part having a larger diameter than the threaded bolts, so that between the threaded bolts and the metallic part is formed a step with a frontal contact surface of the part. 9. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that the metallic parts are inserted in openings of the shoulder or shoulders. 10. Plastic part according to claim 9, characterized in that the parts are one of pressed into the plastic part/shoulder, and bonded into the plastic part/shoulder. 11. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that the metallic parts are molded into the plastic part/shoulder. 12. Plastic part according to claim 1, characterized in that the length of the metallic parts at least corresponds to and preferably slightly exceeds the width of the plastic part/shoulder. 13. A fiber-metal-plastic arrangement comprising: a fiber reinforced plastic part having diametrically opposite first and second sides, and a thickness between said first and second sides; a metallic abutment arranged on said second side of said plastic part; a functional element arranged on said first side of said plastic part; a metal connection from said function element through said plastic part to said metallic abutment for forcing said functional element and said metallic abutment together, said metal connection having a shape to block said functional element and said abutment from coming closer than said thickness of said plastic part. 14. An arrangement in accordance with claim 13, wherein: said metal connection includes a metal part extending through plastic part from said first side to said second side, said cross section being exposed on said first and second sides of said plastic part; said metal connection includes an extension extending away from said first side of said plastic part and extending through said functional element, said functional element being movable on said extension toward and away from said first side of said plastic part, said extension having a cross section smaller than said cross section of said metal part, said cross section of said metal part blocking movement of said functional element into said plastic part. 15. An arrangement in accordance with claim 13, wherein: said metal connection includes a metal part extending through plastic part from said first side to said second side, said metal part having a cross section and defining an opening from said first side to said second side, said cross section being exposed on said first and second sides of said plastic part; said metal connection includes a screw extending through said opening of said metal part and through said functional element, said functional element being movable on said screw toward and away from said first side of said plastic part, said cross section of said metal part blocking movement of said functional element into said plastic part. 16. An arrangement in accordance with claim 13, further comprising: a plurality of said metal connections from said function element through said plastic part to said metallic abutment for forcing said functional element and said metallic abutment together, said plurality of metal connections having a shape to block said functional element and said abutment from coming closer than said thickness of said plastic part. 17. A robotic arrangement comprising: a robot arm having a fiber reinforced plastic part with diametrically opposite first and second sides, and a thickness between said first and second sides; a metallic abutment arranged on said second side of said plastic part; a gear element arranged on said first side of said plastic part; a metal connection from said gear element through said plastic part to said metallic abutment for forcing said gear element and said metallic abutment together, said metal connection having a shape to block said gear element and said abutment from coming closer than said thickness of said plastic part. 18. An arrangement in accordance with claim 17, wherein: said metal connection includes a metal part extending through plastic part from said first side to said second side, said metal part having a cross section, said cross section being exposed on said first and second sides of said plastic part; said metal connection includes an extension extending away from said first side of said plastic part and extending through said gear element, said gear element being movable on said extension toward and away from said first side of said plastic part, said extension having a cross section smaller than said cross section of said metal part, said cross section of said metal part blocking movement of said gear element into said plastic part. 19. An arrangement in accordance with claim 17, wherein: said metal connection includes a metal part extending through plastic part from said first side to said second side, said metal part having a cross section and defining an opening from said first side to said second side, said cross section being exposed on said first and second sides of said plastic part; said metal connection includes a screw extending through said opening of said metal part and through said gear element, said gear element being movable on said screw toward and away from said first side of said plastic part, said cross section of said metal part blocking movement of said gear element into said plastic part. 20. An arrangement in accordance with claim 17, further comprising: a plurality of said metal connections from said gear element through said plastic part to said metallic abutment for forcing said gear element and said metallic abutment together, said plurality of metal connections having a shape to block said gear element and said abutment from coming closer than said thickness of said plastic part; said gear element including first and second parts, said first part being rotatable in said second part, said second part being fixed by said metal connection to said robot arm; a rocker of a robot fixed to said first part of said gear element; a drive motor engaging said first part of said gear element. 