A robot system includes a plurality of segments 3, joints 4 for linking the segments together, drive units 5 for actuating the joints, and a controller 8 for controlling the drive units. Further, the robot system has bladders 2 filled with a fluid being of lower specific gravity than the outside environment. A center of buoyancy differs from a center of gravity, and the robot system has a specific gravity of greater than 1 relative to the outside environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system comprising: at least two segments; joints for interconnecting the segments; drive units for actuating the segments; a controller for controlling the drive units; and a bladder which is provided in at least one of the segments, the joints, the drive units, and the controller and which is filled with a fluid, the fluid being of higher specific gravity than the outside environment, wherein the product of gravitational force and a distance between a ground point where the system comes into contact with the ground and the center of gravity is smaller than the product of buoyant force and a distance between the ground point and the center of buoyancy. 2. A robot system comprising: at least two segments; joints for interconnecting the segments; drive units for actuating the segments; a controller for controlling the drive units; and a bladder which is provided in at least one of the segments, the joints, the drive units, and the controller and which is filled with a fluid, the fluid being of higher specific gravity than the outside environment, wherein one of the segments constitutes a leg section, and buoyant force is greater than gravitational force so that the leg section can contact a ceiling. 3. A robot system comprising: at least two segments; joints for interconnecting the segments; drive units for actuating the segments; a controller for controlling the drive units; and a bladder which is provided in at least one of the segments, the joints, the drive units, and the controller and which is filled with a fluid, the fluid being of higher specific gravity than the outside environment, wherein one of the segments constitutes a leg section, and the leg section comes into contact with a water surface. 4. A robot system comprising: at least two segments; joints for interconnecting the segments; drive units for actuating the segments; a controller for controlling the drive units; a bladder which is provided in at least one of the segments, the joints, the drive units, and the controller and which is filled with a fluid, the fluid being of higher specific gravity than the outside environment; and a transceiver for transmitting information to the outside and receiving information from the outside, and the robot system is constructed so as to enable remote control of the drive units. 5. A robot system comprising: at least two segments; joints for interconnecting the segments; drive units for actuating the segments; a controller for controlling the drive units; and a bladder which is provided in at least one of the segments, the joints, the drive units, and the controller and which is filled with a fluid, the fluid being of higher specific gravity than the outside environment; and sensors for acquiring information about the inside and outside of the robot system. 6. A robot system comprising: at least two bladders filled with a fluid being of lower specific gravity than the outside environment, wherein the product of gravitational force and a distance between a ground point where the system comes into contact with the ground and the center of gravity is smaller than the product of buoyant force and a distance between the ground point and the center of buoyancy. 7. A robot system comprising: at least two bladders filled with a fluid being of lower specific gravity than the outside environment, wherein one of the segments constitutes a leg section, and buoyant force is greater than gravitational force so that the leg section can contact a ceiling. 8. A robot system comprising: at least two bladders filled with a fluid being of lower specific gravity than the outside environment, wherein one of the segments constitutes a leg section, and the leg section comes into contact with a water surface. 9. A robot system comprising: at least two bladders filled with a fluid being of lower specific gravity than the outside environment; and a transceiver for transmitting information to the outside and receiving information from the outside, and the robot system is constructed so as to enable remote control of the drive units. 10. A robot system comprising: at least two bladders filled with a fluid being of lower specific gravity than the outside environment; a joint which links the bladders together; a drive unit for driving the joint; a controller for controlling the drive unit; and sensors for acquiring information about the inside and outside of the robot system. 