This invention is an instrument adaptable for integration into a process tool the combines a number of instruments for surface characterization. As an integrated process monitor, the invention is capable of monitoring surface dishing, surface erosion and thickness of residue layers on work-pieces with little time delay. The invention is adaptable to making measurements while a wafer or work-piece is either wet or dry. A preferred embodiment includes an integrated optical profiler adapted to surface profiling in the presence of optical interference arising from retro-reflections from underlying optical non-uniformities Alternate embodiments include an integrated stylus profiler with vibration isolation.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of determining the height at a selected location on a wafer, said wafer having a structure formed on the surface thereof comprised of one or more stacks, said method comprising the steps of: (a) measuring the selected location with one of a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer to determine one of the optical characteristics and dimensions of the structure; (b) measuring a phase profile at said selected location using an interferometric optical profilometer; and (c) converting the measured phase profile obtained in step (b) into a height profile using the information determined in step (a) 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein measuring step (a) determines both the optical characteristics and dimensions of the structure. 3. A method of determining the height at a selected location on a wafer, said wafer having a structure formed on the surface thereof, said method comprising the steps of: (a) measuring the location with one of a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer; (b) determining the reflection phase of the structure based on the measurement obtained in step (a); (c) measuring a phase profile at said location using an interferometric optical profilometer; and (d) converting the measured phase profile obtained in step (c) into a height profile using the reflection phase information determined in step (b). 4. A method of determining the extent of dishing or erosion across the surface of a wafer having a heterogeneous surface structure comprising the steps of: a) measuring one of the optical characteristics and dimensions of the structure at selected points on the wafer surface using one of a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer; b) measuring a phase profile at said selected points on the wafer using an interferometric optical profilometer; and c) determining the extent of dishing or erosion at each of the selected points on the wafer by using a combination of the measurements obtained in steps (a) and (b). 5. A method as recited in claim 4 wherein the results of step (c) are used to control subsequent polishing steps. 6. A method as recited in claim 4, wherein measuring step (a) measures both the optical characteristics and the dimensions of the structure. 