Embodiments of the invention move objects throughout three-dimensional by using two supporting ropes each of which connects to both opposing sides of the payload. If one rope breaks, the payload gently travels to the middle of the coverage area in a safe manner, maintaining the given displacement in the other unbroken axis. One rope controls the X-axis motion of the platform and is designated the X movement rope. The other rope controls the Y-axis motion of the platform and is designated the Y movement rope. Displacing equal lengths of the X and Y movement ropes allows the Z-axis of the platform to be traversed. There is no need for a complex computer control system since the Z-axis displacement is substantially independent of X and Y axis movement over a coverage area serviced by the platform. In addition, since the ropes are commanded from one point, distantly located motors and electrical cables are not required. Many types of useful devices may then be attached to the platform including devices that require external power or devices that possess their own power and are operated via wireless signals. Triangle and quadrilateral embodiments may be readily constructed without requiring equal distances between any two support structures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a platform; an X movement rope configured to move said platform; a Y movement rope configured to move said platform; and, a Z movement device configured to move said X movement rope and said Y movement rope. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of sheaves through which said X movement rope and said Y movement rope travel. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising: an X movement motor coupled with said X movement rope; a Y movement motor coupled with said Y movement rope; and, a Z movement motor coupled with said Z movement device. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising an electrical generator and electronic drive units coupled to said X movement motor and said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a dynamometer for measuring the tension of said Z movement device. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a stabilizer mounted on said platform. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform is coupled with a camera mount. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform is coupled with a mechanical claw. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform is coupled with a hoist or loader. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform is coupled with a mining scoop. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform further comprises a downward pointing camera for remotely viewing from the position of said platform. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform is attached to a flight simulating suit. 13. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least three support structures. 14. A method comprising: coupling an X movement rope to a platform; coupling a Y movement rope to said platform; and, coupling a Z movement device to said X movement rope and said Y movement rope. 15. The method according to claim 14 further comprising: coupling said X movement rope to an X movement motor; coupling said Y movement rope to a Y movement motor; and, coupling said Z movement device to a Z movement motor. 16. The method according to claim 15 further comprising: rotating said X movement motor; rotating said Y movement motor; rotating said Z movement motor; and, moving said platform. 17. A system comprising: means for coupling an X movement rope to a platform; means for coupling a Y movement rope to said platform; and, means for coupling a Z movement device to said X movement rope and said Y movement rope. 18. The system of claim 17 further comprising: means for coupling said X movement rope to an X movement motor; means for coupling said Y movement rope to a Y movement motor; and means for coupling said Z movement device to a Z movement motor. 19. The system of claim 18 further comprising: means for rotating said X movement motor; means for rotating said Y movement motor; and, means for rotating said Z movement motor. 20. The system of claim 19 further comprising: means for stabilizing said platform. 