A gas pipe explorer formed of a plurality of connecting elements, and an articulation element between the connected elements. The connected elements include drive capabilities, and the articulation element allows the connected elements to traverse gas pipes of arbitrary shapes and sizes. A sensor may sends the characteristics of the gas pipe, and the communication element may send back those sends characteristics. The communication can be wired, over a tether connecting the device to a remote end. Alternatively, the connection can be wireless, driven by either a generator or a battery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas pipe explorer, comprising: a first driving element including a first drive structure therein; a second driving element including a second drive structure therein; an articulation element, between said first and second driving elements, and allowing the first and second driving elements to articulate to a plurality of different positions, including a position which allows one of said driving elements to be lifted off of a driving surface relative to an other of said driving elements; a sensor element coupled to one of said elements, and operating to detect and communicate a condition of a gas pipe; and wherein said articulation element includes a triangular shaped frame, and at least one motor operating to change a shape of said triangular shaped frame. 2. A device as in claim 1, wherein said first and second driving elements are at opposite corners of said triangular shaped frame. 3. A device as in claim 2, wherein said first and second driving elements are at different locations along a length of said triangular shape frame. 4. The device as in claim 1, further comprising cam rotation elements, operating to allow said first and second driving elements to rotate relative to said frame between an extended position, where the first and second driving elements are outside of said frame, and a stowed position, where the first and second driving elements are stowed within a perimeter of said frame. 5. The device as in claim 1, further comprising cam rotation elements, operating to allow said first and second driving elements to rotate relative to said frame between an extended position, where the first and second driving elements are outside of said frame, and a stowed position, where the first and second driving elements are stowed within a perimeter of said frame, at different locations along a length of said frame. 6. A gas pipe explorer, comprising: a first driving element including a first drive structure therein; second driving element including a second drive structure therein; an articulation element, between said first and second driving elements, and allowing the first and second driving elements to articulate to a plurality of different positions, including a position which allows one of said driving elements to be lifted off of a driving surface relative to an other of said driving elements; a sensor element coupled to one of said elements, and operating to detect and communicate a condition of a gas pipe; and wherein said sensor element includes a wireless communication element which communicates wirelessly information related to a condition of said gas pipe. 7. A device as in claim 6, further comprising a power generation element, generating power for driving said first and second driving elements, and said sensor, from a flow of gas in the gas pipe. 8. A device as in claim 7, wherein said wireless communication element produces a frequency which is tuned to waveguide characteristics of the gas pipe. 9. A gas pipe explorer, comprising: a first driving element including a first drive structure therein; a second driving element including a second drive structure therein; an articulation element, between said first and second driving elements, and allowing the first and second driving elements to articulate to a plurality of different positions, including a position which allows one of said driving elements to be lifted off of a driving surface relative to an other of said driving elements; a sensor element coupled to one of said elements, and operating to detect and communicate a condition of a gas pipe; and wherein said sensor element includes a wired communication element which communicates information indicative of a condition of said gas pipe over a wire. 10. A device as in claim 9, wherein said wire also carries power to drive said first and second driving elements. 11. A gas pipe explorer, comprising: a first driving element including a first drive structure therein; a second driving element including a second drive structure therein; an articulation element, between said first and second driving elements, and allowing the first and second driving elements to articulate to a plurality of different positions, including a position which allows one of said driving elements to be lifted off of a driving surface relative to an other of said driving elements; a sensor element coupled to one of said elements, and operating to detect and communicate a condition of a gas pipe; and a power generation element, generating power for driving said first and second driving elements. 12. A device as in claim 11, wherein said power generation element is a turbine driven by gas flow in the gas pipe. 