An apparatus for the treatment of semiconductor wafers, comprising a supportive frame and a process table arranged on the supportive frame. The process table comprises a stationary upper platen and a stationary lower plate. An intermediate indexing plate is rotatively arranged between the upper platen and the lower plate. At least one wafer support pin is attached to the indexing plate for the support of a wafer by the indexing plate. An upper housing is arranged on the upper platen and an outer lower housing is arranged on the lower plate. A displacable lower isolation chamber is disposed within the outer lower housing, being displacable against the indexing plate to define a treatment module between the upper housing and the lower isolation chamber in which the wafer is treated. A wafer supporting treatment plate is arranged within the lower isolation chamber, for controlled rapid treatment of a wafer within the treatment module.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for the treatment of semiconductor wafers, comprising: a supportive frame and a process table arranged on said supportive frame, said process table comprising a stationary upper platen and a stationary lower plate; an intermediate indexing plate rotatively arranged between said upper platen and said lower plate; a wafer support pin attached to said indexing plate for the support of a wafer by said indexing plate; an upper housing arranged on said upper platen and an outer lower housing arranged on said lower plate; and a display able lower isolation chamber disposed within said outer lower housing, displacable against said indexing plate to define a treatment module between said upper housing and said lower isolation chamber in which said wafer is treated. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, including a wafer supporting treatment plate arranged within said lower isolation chamber, for controlled rapid treatment of a wafer within said treatment module. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said treatment plate has a heating element therein. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said treatment plate has a cooling element therein. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said process table has a plurality of treatment modules arranged circumferentially therearound. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein said treatment plate has a plurality of grooves arranged on an upper surface thereof to permit said upper surface of said treatment plate to be raised above said pins. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein at least one of said grooves comprises a channel for the receipt of a robotic arm therein. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein at least one of said grooves is deeper than the remainder of said grooves in said treatment plate. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein a controllably movable support column is arranged through said lower housing to permit said treatment plate and said lower isolation chamber to be vertically displaced. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said upper housing and said lower isolation chamber form a wafer treatment module when said lower isolation chamber is raised against a lower side of said indexing plate. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein a portion of said indexing plate adjacent said wafer being supported thereon includes a wafer support ring, and wherein said wafer ring includes said radially inwardly directed wafer support pins. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein said wafer support ring has a plurality of openings spaced circuniferentially therearound to permit fluid communication between said upper housing end said lower isolation chamber. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein said wafer support ring is vertically displacable with respect to said indexing plate, to permit a tight seal to be arranged between said lower isolation chamber, said wafer support ring and said upper housing. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said treatment plate has a vacuum line arranged therein to permit a wafer carrier thereon to be auctioned against said treatment plate during a treatment process. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said upper housing has a treatment port arranged therethrough to permit a wafer supported therebelow to be treated by a treatment selected from the group consisting of: chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, ion implantation, plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition, lamp heating, UV treatment and radio frequency radiation. 16. A semiconductor serial-processing table comprising: a movable indexing plate supported between a stationary upper plate and a stationary lower plate, said upper and lower plates each having a plurality of housings opposing one another, each of said opposed housings defining a wafer treatment module therebeween; a vertically displacable treatment plate arranged within each of said opposed housings arranged to support a wafer for treatment thereon, wherein said indexing plate includes a plurality of openings theretbrough in vertical alignment with said opposed housings on said upper and lower plates, to permit a wafer to be arranged therein, and including a liftable wafer ring arranged within each of said openings in said indexing plate to permit said upper and lower opposed housings to define an isolation chamber. 17. The semiconductor serial-processing table as recited in claim 16, wherein said lower housings are vertically displacable with respect to said lower plate. 18. The semiconductor serial-processing table as recited in claim 17, wherein said lower housing includes an outer lower housing secured to said lower plate. 