A data storage system that uses multiple nested concentric carousels on a common rotating axis. Each carousel is equipped with an opening large enough to accommodate a retrieving arm, allowing the arm access to the next interior carousel. By aligning the openings of multiple carousels, the retrieving arm can access data storage cartridges located on any of the nested carousels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage system, comprising: first and second concentric storage carousels positioned on an axis, the storage carousels being separately rotatable and at least partially radially aligned, wherein the first storage carousel has a greater outer radius than the second storage carousel such that the second storage carousel sits within the first storage carousel; wherein the first storage carousel has an access opening allowing access to the second storage carrousel by an access arm. 2. The storage system of claim 1, wherein a receptacle within the second storage carousel is accessed through the access opening by rotating at least one of the first storage carousel and the second carousel such that the receptacle is aligned with the access opening. 3. The storage system of claim 2, wherein the receptacle is configured to receive a data storage element. 4. The storage system of claim 3, wherein the data storage element includes at least one of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy discs, and compact discs. 5. A storage system, comprising: a plurality of rotatable concentric cylindrical storage carousels including a first storage carousel and a second storage carousel positioned on a first axis, wherein the first storage carousel has a greater outer radius than the second storage carousel and the second storage carousel is located within the first storage carousel; and a retrieval arm positioned on a second axis, the second axis parallel to the first axis; wherein the first storage carousel has an access slot which extends parallel to the first axis, the access slot allowing the retrieval arm to access the second storage carousel. 6. The storage system of claim 5, wherein a receptacle within the second storage carousel is accessed through the access slot by rotating at least one of the first storage carousel and the second storage carousel such that the receptacle is aligned with the access slot. 7. A storage system, comprising: a plurality of rotatable concentric cylindrical storage carousels positioned on a first axis; and a retrieval arm positioned on a second axis, the second axis parallel to the first axis; wherein a first access slot and a second access slot located in the first storage carousel each extend parallel to the first axis, the first and second access slots allowing the retrieval arm to access the second carousel located within the first carousel. 8. The storage system of claim 6, wherein the receptacle is configured to receive units of data storage media. 9. A data storage system, comprising: a first axis having a first storage carousel rotatably positioned thereon; a second storage carousel rotatably positioned on the first axis and having a greater radius than the first storage carousel so that the first storage carousel sits within the second storage carousel; and an access arm moveable along a second axis, the second axis parallel to the first axis; wherein the second storage carousel has an access opening therein, the access opening extending substantially the length of the storage carousel parallel to the first axis; whereby when the access opening is aligned with the access arm, the access arm can reach past the second carousel to reach the first carousel. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein a receptacle in the first storage carousel is accessed through the access opening by rotating at least one of the first storage carousel and the second storage carousel such that the access opening is aligned with the receptacle. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the receptacle is configured to receive units of storage media. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the storage media include at least one of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy discs, and compact discs. 13. A data storage apparatus, comprising: a first storage ring rotatable around an axis, wherein the first storage ring has a first plurality of receptacles; and a second storage ring rotatable around the axis, wherein the second storage ring has a second plurality of receptacles and has an access opening, wherein the second storage ring has an outer radius greater than an outer radius of the first storage ring and wherein the first storage ring is nested within the second ring and wherein access by an access arm to all receptacles within the first plurality of receptacles in the first storage ring occurs through the access opening. 14. The data storage apparatus of claim 13, wherein a receptacle within the first plurality of receptacles is accessed through the access opening by rotating at least one of the first storage ring and the second storage ring such that the receptacle is aligned with the access opening. 15. The data storage apparatus of claim 14 wherein the first plurality of receptacles and the second plurality of receptacles are configured to receive units of storage media. 16. The data storage apparatus of claim 15, wherein the storage media includes at least one of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy discs, and compact discs. 17. A method for storing and accessing cartridges, comprising the steps of: positioning cartridges on a first carousel, the carousel being rotatable about a first axis; positioning cartridges on a second carousel, the second carousel having an access slot therein, the second carousel being rotatable about the first axis and concentric with the first carousel, the second carousel having a larger diameter than the first carousel and being at least partially radially aligned therewith; rotating the second carousel so that the access slot aligns with a cartridge access device, the cartridge access device being moveable on a second axis parallel to the first axis and being extensible to reach the first and the second carousels; rotating the first carousel so that a first cartridge is aligned with the access slot and the cartridge access device; inserting the cartridge access device through the access slot to reach the first cartridge on the first carousel. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first cartridge comprises a unit of data storage media. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the storage media includes at least one of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy discs, and compact discs. 