A library system having a reader and labeling device (200) for interrogating data storage cartridges of the type containing an in-built memory chip having information stored describing details of data contained on the data storage medium is disclosed. The reader-labeling device comprises a processor, random access memory, printer, display, keypad, operating system, transponder, receiver and battery power supply. Key parameters describing a data cartridge can be accessed quickly and efficiently without the need to access the data storage medium itself. A cartridge media specific label may be rapidly printed for attachment to a data storage cartridge. The reader-labeling device may be incorporated into an automatic library (201) accessible by a robotic arm (202), wherein the user may quickly read summary information describing a data storage cartridge or its contents from information stored on a memory attached to the cartridge by use of the reader-labeling device externally controlled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic library device for storing a plurality of cartridge data storage devices, each having a casing including a high capacity data storage medium, and having a programmable memory attached to said casing, said programmable memory being adapted to store data signals describing said data storage device, said library device comprising: a plurality of receptacles for storing said plurality of said cartridge data storage devices; an automatic selector operable to select, retrieve and replace said cartridge data storage devices from said receptacles; and a reader for transducing data vis a vis the high capacity medium of the cartridge devices, said selector being configured to selectively load one of the cartridges in said reader, said reader being configured to read the data signals from said programmable memory of the cartridge loaded in the reader and print indications derived from said data signals. 2. The library device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reader comprises a port configured to accept said cartridge type data storage device, and a printer located in said port, said printer being configured to print the indications derived from the data signal directly to said data storage device when said data storage device is inserted in said port. 3. The library device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reader comprises: a receiver capable of receiving data signals from said programmable memory of said data storage device; and an interface for interfacing with a processor for communicating said data signals to an external processor device. 4. The library device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reader device comprises: an interface for interfacing with a processor for communicating said data signals to an external processor device, such that information included in data read from said programmable memory of said data storage device can be accessed by said external processor device via said interface. 5. The library device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a read only memory storing an operating system for operating a processor to display said data items received from a receiver of the data items; and a display arranged to display said data items read from said programmable memory-via the receiver. 6. The library device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a power source for supplying power to said data storage device, said power source being located in close proximity to said cartridge port for supplying power to said programmable memory. 7. The library device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the instrument includes a magnetic tape. 8. A method of labeling a data storage device carrying a large capacity memory medium and a small capacity programmable memory positioned on the exterior of a casing of the data storage device, the programmable memory storing data signals describing information about the data storage device, the method comprising the steps of: placing said data storage device in a port of a reader capable of reading the data signals; reading the data signals while the data storage device is in the port; polling a detector of said read data signals; receiving said data signals; storing said data signals in a memory of said reader, and responding to the data signals stored in the memory of the reader by printing the information in such a way that the printed information can be put on said data storage device. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of printing includes printing said predetermined set of data items on a label having a size and shape suitable for direct attachment to said data storage device, and thereafter applying said label to a cartridge of the data storage device. 10. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein said step of printing comprises printing said predetermined set of data items directly onto a cartridge of said data storage device. 11. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the storage device includes a magnetic tape. 12. A method of obtaining information about a high-capacity data storage medium carried by a cartridge having a low capacity memory, the information being obtained without reading the high capacity data storage medium, the method comprising loading signals indicative of the information into the low capacity memory, subsequently loading the cartridge into a reader including a first transducer for the high capacity data storage medium and a second transducer for the low capacity memory, reading the signals indicative of the information stored in the low capacity memory by using the second transducer, and responding to the signals read by the second transducer indicative of the information stored in the low capacity memory by applying to the cartridge exterior human readable material commensurate with the information stored in the low capacity memory. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the medium includes a magnetic tape. 