A fluid powered rotary indexer includes a housing with a piston rotatably mounted therein. The housing includes ports providing fluid communication to opposing compartments within the housing so as to rotate the piston clockwise or counterclockwise upon the introduction of fluid into one compartment or the other. The piston is rotatably supported by a bearing which is mounted to a work surface. An adapter is connected to the piston for rotation therewith and supports a tool or work piece. The sealing rings are provided between the piston and the housing to provide a fluid seal for the chamber. A central opening is provided in the assembly through which cables, wires, and tubing can be extended.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for rotationally supporting a tool or work piece, comprising: a housing with a chamber therein; a piston rotatably mounted within the chamber of the housing to form a first assembly, the piston being adapted to operatively support the tool or work piece; the piston being disc-shaped with a large diameter portion and a small diameter portion and radially extending surfaces extending between the large and small diameter portions; and ports in the housing providing fluid communication with the chamber whereby introduction of fluid into the chamber imparts rotation to the piston and the tool or work piece. 2. The device of claim 1 further comprising a bearing for rotationally supporting the piston in the housing. 3. The device of claim 1 further comprising sealing rings between the piston and housing to provide a fluid seal for the chamber. 4. The device of claim 1 further comprising an adapter mounted to the piston and being adapted to support the tool or work piece for rotation with the piston. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the chamber includes a rib to limit the rotational movement of the piston. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein the piston includes opposite surfaces against which fluid acts to rotate the piston in opposite directions. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein the piston surfaces and rib divides the chamber into two compartments. 8. The device of claim 7 wherein the ports are located on each side of the rib to provide selective fluid communication to each compartment. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein a second housing and piston assembly is mounted on the first assembly. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the first and second assemblies are actuated sequentially. 11. The device of claim 9 wherein the first and second assemblies are actuated simultaneously. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein the housing is sandwiched between a pair of support plates. 13. The device of claim 1 wherein the first assembly has an axially extending opening. 14. The device of claim 1 further comprises rest pads operatively mounted on the housing to limit the rotational movement of the piston. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein the radially extending surfaces of the piston are approximately 180.degree. apart. 16. The device of claim 1 wherein the housing includes half shells each having a recess, with the shells being clamped together such that the recesses form the chamber. 17. The device of claim 1 further comprising a seal seated in the housing and extending around the piston so as to divide the chamber into two compartments. 18. A method of rotating an object, comprising: attaching the object to a piston rotationally supported within a chamber of a housing, the piston having spaced apart radially extending surfaces, the housing having fluid inlet ports and fluid outlet ports; introducing fluid through a first port in the housing and into the chamber so as to impart a force on one of the radially extending surfaces of the piston and thereby rotate the piston and object up to 180.degree. to a desired orientation; and closing at least one outlet port after partial rotation of the piston to dampen the rotational movement of the piston. 19. A method of rotating an object, comprising: attaching the object to a piston rotationally supported within a chamber of a housing, the piston having spaced apart radially extending surfaces, housing and piston forming a first assembly; introducing a fluid through first port in the housing and into the chamber so as to impart a force on one of the radially extending surfaces of the piston and thereby rotate the piston and object up to 180.degree. to a desired orientation; and mounting a second housing and piston assembly onto the first assembly and rotating the piston of the second assemblies fluid pressure. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising actuating the first and second assemblies sequentially. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising actuating the first and second assemblies simultaneously. 