A device operative to detect metal objects. The device includes a transmitter circuit, an upper transmitter coil and a lower transmitter coil operatively connected to the transmitter circuit. A current fed through the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil generates a field that excites eddy currents in metal objects in the vicinity of the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil. An upper magnetic field detector and a lower magnetic field detector are operative to sense eddy currents generated in the metal objects. Processor elements operatively connected to the upper magnetic field detector and the lower magnetic field detector collect, store and analyze the eddy currents and thereby determine the likelihood that a metal object has been detected. A navigation system operatively connected to the processor elements controls movement of the device. Transporting elements operatively connected to the navigation system are operative to support the device and permit alteration of a position of the device.
Claims I claim: 1. A device operative to detect metal objects, the device comprising: a transmitter circuit; an upper transmitter coil and a lower transmitter coil symmetrically arranged about an antenna symmetry line and operatively connected to the transmitter circuit, wherein a current fed through the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil generates a field that excites eddy currents in metal objects in the vicinity of the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil; an upper magnetic field detector and a lower magnetic field detector symmetrically arranged about the antenna symmetry line and operative to sense eddy currents generated in the metal objects; processor elements operatively connected to the upper magnetic field detector and the lower magnetic field detector to collect, store and analyze the eddy currents and thereby determine the likelihood that a metal object has been detected, wherein at least some of the processor elements are arranged along the antenna symmetry line such that a metal signature of the device is cancelled or minimized; a navigation system operatively connected to the processor elements to control movement of the device; and at least one transporting element operatively connected to the navigation system and operative to support the device and permit alteration of a position of the device. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system comprises an obstacle avoidance system. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system comprises an inertial navigation system. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system comprises a differential global positioning system receiver. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the navigation system is operatively connected to the processor elements. 6. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: a wireless connection between the processor and the an upper magnetic field detector and a lower magnetic field detector. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the transporting elements comprise a plurality of wheels or tracks. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the transporting elements have a contact patch sufficiently large to prevent detonation of the unexploded ordnance. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the transporting elements are non-metallic. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein metallic elements of the device are arranged a distance away from the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil sufficient to permit detection of unexploded ordnance. 11. The device according to claim 1, wherein a distance between the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil is substantially fixed. 12. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: a power source operative to power the device. 13. The device according to claim 1, wherein the processor elements comprise an amplifier operatively connected to the upper magnetic field detector and the lower magnetic field detector to receive signals corresponding to the detected eddy currents, an analog to digital converter operatively connected to the amplifier to receive signals from the amplifier and convert the signals to a digital form and a processor operatively connected to the analog to digital converter to analyze the signals. 14. The device according to claim 1, wherein the current is pulsed. 15. The device according to claim 1, wherein the current is continuous frequency. 16. The device according to claim 1, wherein the current is single or multiple frequency. 17. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one control surface. 18. The device according to claim 17, wherein the at least one control surface is moveable. 19. The device according to claim 1, wherein the upper magnetic field detector and the lower magnetic field detector comprise receiver coils. 20. The device according to claim 19, wherein the upper and lower magnetic field deter coils are arranged within the upper and lower transmitter coils, respectively. 21. The device of claim according to claim 20, wherein the upper and lower magnetic with the upper and lower transmitter coils, respectively. 22. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: a base station operatively connected to the device to control operation of the device. 23. The device according to claim 22, wherein the base station is operative to control operation of a plurality of devices simultaneously. 24. The device according to claim 22, wherein the base station is operative to receive and store positional and signature data regarding metal objects detected by the device. 25. The device according to claim 22, wherein the base station comprises automatic target recognition algorithms. 26. The device according to claim 22, further comprising: a wireless connection between the device and the base station. 27. A device operative to detect metal objects, the device comprising: a transmitter circuit: an upper transmitter coil and a lower transmitter coil operatively connected to the transmitter circuit, wherein a current fed through the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil generates a field that excites eddy currents in metal objects in the vicinity of the upper transmitter coil and the lower transmitter coil; an upper magnetic field detector and a lower magnetic field detector operative to sense eddy currents generated in the metal objects; processor elements operatively connected to the upper magnetic field detector and the lower magnetic field detector to collect, store and analyze the eddy currents and thereby determine the likelihood that a metal object has been detected; a navigation system operatively connected to the processor elements to control movement of the device; and at least one transporting element operatively connected to the navigation system and operative to support the device and permit alteration of a position of the device, wherein the transporting elements comprise a propeller. 28. The device according to claim 27, wherein the propeller is gimbaled. 