A glazing is provided comprising a glass sheet with a rigid member bonded to it by adhesive which is provided on at least two discrete areas of the member or glass sheet. The adhesive may be a structural adhesive, pre-applied in tablet form, and activated by heat. The use of multiple discrete areas of adhesive allows differential thermal expansion to be accommodated. The glazing may be for a vehicle window, and the rigid member may be a plate, especially a mounting plate for ancillary equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A glazing comprising a glass sheet with a rigid plate bonded to it by a structural adhesive, the rigid plate having at least one surface which corresponds in shape of curvature substantially to the shape of part of a surface of the glass sheet, said surfaces of the glass sheet and the rigid plate each comprising a plurality of discrete areas, wherein the coefficients of thermal expansion of the plate and the glass sheet are different, and the adhesive is provided on at least two discrete areas of one surface of the plate or glass sheet. 2. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the areas of adhesive are on opposite sides of the overall centre of gravity of the member together with any item attached to the rigid plate. 3. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein a maximum dimension of the rigid plate is at least 70 mm. 4. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the weight of the rigid plate together with any item attached thereto is at least 500 g. 5. A glazing comprising a glass sheet with a rigid member bonded to it by adhesive, the glass sheet and the rigid member each comprising a plurality of discrete areas, the adhesive being provided on at least two discrete areas of the member or glass sheet, and wherein the member is a mounting plate for a wiper assembly including a wiper drive motor. 6. A glazing comprising a glass sheet with a rigid member bonded to it by adhesive, the glass sheet and the rigid member each comprising a plurality of discrete areas, the adhesive being provided on at least two discrete areas of the member or glass sheet, and wherein the glazing is pivotally mounted so as to be openable, and the member is a mounting plate for a support strut which supports the glazing in the open position. 7. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the adhesive comprises a polyester/isocyanate mixture, provided in the form of at least two tack-free, heat-activated tablets. 8. A glazing as claimed in claim 7, wherein the rigid plate includes recesses adapted to receive the tablets. 9. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the adhesive includes a plurality of small inert incompressible beads, the diameter of which corresponds approximately to the desired final thickness of adhesive after bonding. 10. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the curing time of the adhesive is less than 4 hours. 11. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein a maximum dimension of the plate is at least 100 mm. 12. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein a maximum dimension of the plate is at least 150 mm. 13. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the weight of the rigid plate together with any item attached thereto is at least 1000 g. 14. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the curing time of the adhesive is less than 2 hours. 15. A glazing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the curing time of the adhesive is less than 1 hour. 