Disposable loading units (DLUs) configured for mounting to a robotic arm for performing at least one surgical task are presented. Each DLU includes an attachment platform having at least one connector for engaging at least one connector on a distal end of the robotic arm for connecting the DLU to the robotic arm, a head portion connected to the attachment platform at one end and configured for housing an electro-mechanical actuation assembly therein, and at least one surgical tool member extending from the head portion and operatively associated with the electro-mechanical actuation assembly for controlling the operation and movement of the at least one surgical tool member. The at least one surgical tool member may include a cutting assembly, an aortic hole punch assembly, a lasing assembly, a coring assembly, or a vascular suturing assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disposable loading unit configured for mounting to a robotic arm for performing at least one surgical task, the disposable loading unit comprising: a) an attachment platform having at least one connector for releasably engaging at least one connector on a distal end of the robotic arm for attaching the disposable loading unit to the robotic arm and for establishing an electrical connection for receiving or transmitting at least one electrical signal; b) a head portion connected to the attachment platform and adapted for electro-mechanical coupling to the robotic arm, the head portion being mounted for articulating movement with respect to a longitudinal axis of the robotic arm; and c) at least one surgical tool member extending from the head portion and operatively associated with the electro-mechanical assembly for performing the at least one surgical task. 2. A disposable loading unit as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is selected from a group consisting of a cutting assembly, an aortic hole punch assembly, a lasing assembly, a coring assembly, or a vascular suturing assembly. 3. A disposable loading unit as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is configured for endoscopic surgical tasks. 4. A disposable loading unit as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical tool member is configured for laparoscopic surgical tasks. 