A spot picker is comprised of a pipette and a disposable cutting tip. The pipette is comprised of a housing with a suction tube projecting from a lower end. An actuation button is positioned at the top end of the housing. The actuation button is connected to a piston inside the suction tube. A plunger attached to the piston has a lower end positioned outside the suction tube. The cutting tip is comprised of a hollow tube with an open proximal end attached to the suction tube. A compressible porous hydrophobic filter is securely but movably positioned within the hollow tube. The cutting tip cuts a gel spot when its open lower end is pushed into a sheet of gel. The plunger pushes the filter outward to discharge the gel spot from the cutting tip when the actuation button is fully depressed.
Claims We claim: 1. A cutting tip for attaching to a suction tube and for cutting a spot from a sheet of semi-solid material, said cutting tip comprising: a hollow tube with open opposite ends, wherein an upper end thereof is arranged for attaching to a lower end of said suction tube, and a lower end thereof is arranged for cutting said spot from said sheet of semi-solid material; and a compressible barrier movably positioned within said hollow tube, wherein a lower section of said hollow tube between an initial position of said barrier and said lower end of said hollow tube is of generally constant diameter, said barrier is compressed within said hollow tube for being moved when pushed upon and for staying in position when released, said barrier is arranged for being positioned between said spot and a plunger extending from said suction tube for preventing said spot from contaminating said plunger, said barrier is arranged for being pushed downward by said plunger to a position flush with said lower end of said hollow tube for pushing said spot out of said hollow tube. 2. A spot picker, comprising: a pipette comprising: a suction tube with an open lower end; a piston positioned within said suction tube and movable linearly therein for generating suction; and a plunger with an upper end attached to a lower end of said piston, wherein a lower end of said plunger is movable to a position outside said suction tube; a cutting tip comprising: a hollow tube with open opposite ends, wherein an upper end thereof is detachably connected to said lower end of said suction tube of said pipette, and a lower end thereof is arranged for cutting a spot from a sheet of semi-solid material; and a compressible barrier movably positioned within said hollow tube, a lower section of said hollow tube between an initial position of said barrier and said lower end of said hollow tube is of generally constant diameter, wherein said barrier is compressed within said hollow tube for being moved when pushed upon and for staying in position when released, said barrier includes a generally flat upper end which is pushed by said plunger when said plunger is depressed, and immediately disengaged from said plunger when said plunger is retracted; wherein when said lower end of said plunger is moved to said position outside said suction tube, said lower end of said plunger is positioned within said hollow tube of said cutting tip and said barrier is pushed downward by said plunger, said plunger has a predetermined length to push said barrier to a position flush with said lower end of said hollow tube for pushing said spot out of said hollow tube, and for preventing said spot from contaminating said plunger. 3. The spot picker of claim 2, further including a housing attached to a top end of said suction tube, and an actuation button attached to said housing, wherein said actuation button is connected to a top end of said piston for simultaneous movement. 