The invention provides methods for detecting a labeled sample molecule bound to an immobilized probe by electrochemiluminescence. The method comprises providing a multiplexed molecular analysis system comprising a reaction chamber comprising a reaction substrate comprising a plurality of biosites, each biosite comprising a plurality of similar capture probes attached to the reaction substrate, the reactions substrate comprising an embedded conductive material connected to an electrical source and providing a sample comprising a plurality of molecules labeled with a electrochemiluminescent label; adding a solution comprising this sample to the reaction chamber; applying a voltage from the electrical source to the conductive material after sufficient time has passed for a labeled molecule to bind to a capture probe, thereby inducing an electrochemical event within the electrochemiluminescent label that releases a detectable amount of electromagnetic energy; and, detecting the released electromagnetic energy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting a labeled sample molecule bound to an immobilized probe by electrochemiluminescence using an array comprising an embedded conductive material comprising: (a) providing a multiplexed molecular analysis system comprising a reaction chamber comprising a reaction substrate comprising a plurality of biosites, each biosite comprising a plurality of similar capture probes attached to the reaction substrate, the reaction substrate comprising an embedded conductive material which is coupled to one or more biosites connected to an electrical source; (b) providing a sample comprising a plurality of labeled sample molecules; (c) adding a solution comprising the sample of step (b) to the reaction chamber of step (a); (d) applying a voltage from the electrical source to the embedded conductive material after sufficient time has passed for the labeled sample molecule to bind to a capture probe, thereby inducing an electrochemical event within an electrochemiluminescent label that releases a detectable amount of electromagnetic energy; and, (e) detecting the released electromagnetic energy indicating a bound labeled sample molecule. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of labeled sample molecules are fluorescently labeled with a molecule that releases energy when a voltage is applied to the conductive material. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of labeled sample molecules are electroluminescently labeled with a molecule that releases energy when a voltage is applied to the conductive material. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the released electromagnetic energy is detected using an optical sensing array. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiplexed molecular analysis system further comprises an optical sensing array disposed in close proximity to the reaction substrate. 6. The method of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the optical sensing array is lensless. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising a wash step after the adding of step (c) and before applying the voltage of step (d) to remove unbound sample molecules. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction chamber is coated with a conductive material. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction substrate comprises glass or plastic. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the conductive material comprises gold. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the conductive material comprises platinum. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture probe comprises a nucleic acid. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeled sample molecule comprises a nucleic acid. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the labeled sample molecule binds to a nucleic acid capture probe by hybridization. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiplexed molecular analysis system further comprises an electrode that contacts the solution to act as an anode, wherein the conductive surface is acting as a cathode. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the label comprises ruthenium (Ru). 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the label is directly attached to the sample molecule. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the label is covalently attached to the sample molecule. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the label is indirectly attached to the sample molecule. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the released electromagnetic energy is in the form of a photon. 