Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An oligonucleotide 8 to 80 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleobases 67 through 144 of a 5'-untranslated region, nucleobases 258 through 1684 of a coding region, a stop codon region, or a 3'-untranslated region of a nucleic acid molecule of SEQ ID NO: 3 encoding hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase, wherein said oligonucleotide specifically hybridizes with one of said regions and inhibits the expression of hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase. 2. The oligonucleotide of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The oligonucleotide of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The oligonucleotide of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The oligonucleotide of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The oligonucleotide of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-o-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The oligonucleotide of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The oligonucleotide of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The oligonucleotide of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the oligonucleotide of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 12. The composition of claim 10 wherein the oligonucleotide is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. A method of inhibiting the expression of hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues in vitro with the oligonucleotide of claim 1 so that expression of hematopoietic cell protein tyrosine kinase is inhibited. 