A cable array robotic system and apparatus for applications such as cargo handling at sea and pallet handling in manufacturing, based on a multi-cable robotic control system is disclosed. The cables are deployed from three or more folding, telescoping masts at the corners of a work area. The cables attach to an end-effector (e.g. a spreader mechanism) that grips an object (e.g. a container) and affects desired movements as directed by an operator through a computer controlled graphical user interface using pointing directives such as "put that there". Various sensors and cameras enable a high degree of control over the end-effector (e.g. spreader or pallet) as it is moved from place to place. Sufficient control is possible so that the present cargo handling system may unload, without pendulation, the deck and hold of a ship onto a sea-going lighter during sea state three conditions in a container handling application at sea.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for robotically moving an object, said system comprising: at least three mast assemblies, each mast assembly having a mast, a winch, and a cable deployed by said winch from said mast, said at least three mast assemblies being spaced apart from each other; an end-effector, said cable from said each mast assembly being attached to said end effector, said end effector to grip an object in order to move said object; and a real-time automatic feedback computer controller in operational connection with said winches of said at least three mast assemblies, said winches being responsive to said computer controller, said computer controller having control algorithms and a point-and-direct graphical user interface for enabling a user to cause said computer controller to direct movement of said object by said end effector, said point-and-direct graphical interface allowing points to be targeted by an operator, said interface remaining the same regardless of the number of said at least three mast assemblies. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said system is mounted on a mother platform and is adapted to move said object to a target platform, and wherein said control algorithms solve in real time the closed-chain kinematics and dynamics equations for desired movement of said object, causing said computer controller to adjust said cables to proper length via said winches to move said end-effector and said object when grasped by said end-effector according to said solution. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, further involving plural sensors selected from the group consisting of cameras, lasers, global positioning system sensors, encoders, and tension sensors, said sensors taking measurements that said system uses collectively to monitor and control said cable array robot operations. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said end-effector further comprises an active spreader having means for rotating said object about a vertical axis; and a messenger spreader carried by said active spreader, said active spreader having winch means for raising and lowering said messenger spreader with respect to said active spreader in looped mode. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said end-effector includes means for controlling the roll and pitch attitude of said object, when said end-effector grips said object; and means for rotating said container about a vertical axis. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said user interface to the system interweaves virtual representations of said end-effector with live video of said object in such a way that said end-effector appears to be solid in front of actual objects and outlined in wire frame behind said object. 7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said computer controller is adapted to generate a test run of the movement of said object prior to actual movement of said object. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said object has associated parameters, and wherein said software algorithms include plural closed-loop nonlinear and adaptive software algorithms that are robust to variations in said parameters associated with said object. 9. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said at least three mast assemblies is at least four mast assemblies, and wherein each cable of said at least four mast assemblies beyond three cables is prevented by said computer controller from ever going slack, said each cable of said at least four mast assemblies beyond three cables carrying a portion of said load while said three cables control said object. 10. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said each mast of said at least three mast assemblies telescopes between a stored position and a deployed position and wherein, there being a tip to each mast, said tip of said each mast may be farther from each other tip when said each mast is in the deployed position than in the stored position. 11. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said each mast of said at least three mast assemblies may be on separate, independently moving platform. 12. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said each mast has a tip and said tip carries a global satellite positioning sensor to determine where said tip is located, and wherein said tip position is input into said software algorithm to produce a cable lengths for said each cable. 13. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said at least three mast assemblies are installed on the deck of a ship, said system further comprising an offload fairlead, said offload fairlead comprising a set of pulleys oriented so that cables from one or more masts of said mast assemblies can be captured by said set of pulleys when moving said object overboard while cables stay safely above said deck. 14. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising plural cameras, each camera of said plural cameras having a direction, said plural cameras being independently controlled by said computer controller so that each camera of said plural cameras may be pointed at said object to determine the location of said object by triangulation. 15. A system for moving cargo containers, said system comprising: three mast assemblies, each mast assembly of said three mast assemblies having a mast, a winch, and a cable deployed by said winch from said mast, said three mast assemblies being spaced apart from each other; an end effector, said cable from said each mast assembly being attached to said end effector, said end effector to grip a cargo container in order to move said container; and a computer controller in operational connection with said winch of said each mast assembly, said winch being responsive to said computer controller, said computer controller having a user interface for enabling a user to cause said computer controller to direct movement of said cargo container by said end effector. 16. The system as recited in claim 15, further comprising plural cameras, each camera of said plural cameras having a direction, said plural cameras being independently controlled by said computer controller so that each camera of said plural cameras may be pointed in a direction and at least one of said cameras may be pointed at a cargo container, when said cargo container is gripped by said end effector, so that the location of said cargo container can be determined by triangulation. 17. The system as recited in claim 15, further comprising range-finding means carried by said end effector, said range-finding means for determining distance from said end effector to a surface. 18. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said end effector carries means for rotation about a vertical axis. 19. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said end effector further comprises a active spreader and a messenger spreader carried by said active spreader, said active spreader having winch means for raising and lowering said messenger spreader with respect to said active spreader. 20. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said end effector carries means for leveling said container, when said end effector is gripping said cargo container and the center of gravity of said cargo container is not centered in said container. 21. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said user interface includes a test run capability. 22. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said end effector has a ground satellite position transmitter for use by the computer controller in determining the position of said end effector. 23. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein said computer controller determines the position of said end effector at least every tenth of a second. 24. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said each mast of said three mast assemblies telescopes between a stored position and a deployed position. 25. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said each mast of said three mast assemblies folds between a stored position and a deployed position. 26. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said each mast of said three mast assemblies has a deployed position and a stored position, and wherein said each mast of said three mast assemblies has a top, and wherein said top of said each mast is farther from each other top when said each mast is in the deployed position. 27. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein said masts are installed on the deck of a ship, said system further comprising a fairlead, said fairlead comprising a pair of pulleys oriented so that cables from two masts of said three mast assemblies can be captured by said pair of pulleys when moving a cargo container off said deck. 28. A system for moving cargo containers, said system comprising: three mast assemblies, each mast assembly of said three mast assemblies having a mast having a stored and a deployed position, a winch, and a cable deployed by said winch from said mast, said three mast assemblies being spaced apart from each other; an end effector, said cable from said each mast assembly being attached to said end effector, said end effector to grip a cargo container in order to move said container; means for determining the position of said end effector; and a computer controller in operational connection with said winch of said each mast assembly and said determining means, said winch of said each mast assembly being responsive to said computer controller, said computer controller having a user interface for enabling a user to cause said computer controller to direct movement of said cargo container from said position by said end effector, said computer controller to move said cargo container from said position determined by said determining means. 29. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said determining means further comprises plural cameras positioned to observe said end effector, each camera of said plural cameras having a field of view including cross hairs and an axis aligned with the intersection of said cross hairs, said each camera being movable so that an object in said field of view can be aligned with the intersection of said cross hairs, and wherein axes of two or more cameras of said plural cameras can be aligned with said object to determine its position by triangulation. 30. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said determining means further comprises a global satellite positioning system. 31. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said determining means determines the position of said effector at least every 0.1 second. 32. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said user interface is adapted to allow a user to view a trial run of a movement of said cargo container. 33. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said mast moves between said stored ion by unfolding and telescoping. 34. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said end effector further comprises a active spreader and a messenger spreader, said messenger spreader being connected to said active spreader using winches and cables. 