An autonomous multi-platform robot system (100, 1100) for performing at least one functional task in an environment is provided. The system includes at least one navigator platform (110, 1110) providing mapping, localization, planning, and control functions for itself and at least one other platform within the environment and at least one functional robot platform (120, 1120) in communication with one or more navigator platforms for performing one or more functional tasks. In one embodiment, one or more navigator platforms (1110) are stationary and include sensors (202) for sensing information about the environment. In another embodiment, one or more functional robot platforms (1120) include sensors (304) for sending information about the environment. In still another embodiment, the system includes one or more stationary platforms (124) with sensors (310) for sensing information about the environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous multi-platform robot system for performing at least one functional task in an environment, the system including: at least one functional robot platform; at least one navigator platform providing mapping, localization, planning, and control functions for itself and said at least one functional robot platform; and wherein said at least one functional robot platform senses information about the environment and communicates such information to said at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform. 2. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one navigator platform includes: a receiver for receiving communications, including environmental data, from the at least one functional robot platform; a controller in communication with the receiver for providing mapping, localization, planning, and control processes for the navigator platform and the at least one functional robot platform; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting control signals and other communications to the at least one functional robot platform within the environment. 3. The system as set forth in claim 2, wherein the at least one navigator platform further includes: drive means in communication with the controller for moving the navigator platform around within the environment. 4. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one functional robot platform includes: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from the at least one navigator platform; drive means for moving the at least one functional robot platform around within the environment; at least one sensor for sensing the information about the environment that is communicated to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; a controller in communication with the receiver, drive means, and sensor(s) for controlling the drive means and sensor(s) in response to control signals; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting environmental data and other communications to the at least one navigator platforms within the environment. 5. The system as set forth in claim 4 wherein the at least one functional robot platform also performs at least one functional task. 6. The system as set forth in claim 1, further including: at least one stationary sensor platform in communication with the at least one navigator platforms for sensing information about the environment and communicating such information to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; wherein the at least one stationary sensor platform is spaced from the at least one navigator platform. 7. The system as set forth in claim 6, wherein the at least one stationary sensor platform includes: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from the at least one navigator platform; at least one sensor for sensing the information about the environment that is communicated to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; a controller in communication with the receiver and sensor(s) for controlling the at least one sensor in response to the control signals; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting environmental data and other communications to the at least one navigator platform. 8. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one functional robot platform includes: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from the at least one navigator platform; drive means for moving the at least one functional robot platform around within the environment; at least one sensor for sensing the information about the environment that is communicated to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; a controller in communication with the receiver, drive means, and sensor(s) for controlling the drive means in response to control signals; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting environmental data and other communications to the at least one navigator platform within the environment. 9. A multi-platform robot system for performing functional tasks in an environment, the system including: a functional robot platform; a navigator platform providing mapping, localization, planning, and control functions for itself and said functional robot platform; wherein the functional robot platform is in communication with the navigator platform for performing one or more functional tasks; and a stationary sensor platform in communication with the navigator platform, the functional robot platform providing control functions for said stationary sensor platform; wherein said stationary sensor platform is separate from said navigator platform and senses information about the environment and communicates such information to said navigator platform for consideration in the manning, localization, planning, and control functions provided by said navigator platform. 10. The system as set forth in claim 9, the navigator platform including: a receiver for receiving communications, including environmental data, from the stationary sensor platform; a controller in communication with the receiver for providing mapping, localization, planning, and control processes for the navigator platform and the functional robot platform and control processes for the stationary sensor platform; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting control signals and other communications to the functional robot platform and the stationary sensor platform. 11. The system as set forth in claim 10, the navigator platform further including: drive means in communication with the controller for moving the navigator platform around within the environment. 12. The system as set forth in claim 9, functional robot platform including: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from the navigator platform within the environment; and drive means for moving the functional robot platform around within the environment in response to the control signals. 13. The system as set forth in claim 9, stationary sensor platform including: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from the navigator platform within the environment; at least one sensor for sensing the information about the environment that is communicated to the navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the navigator platform; a controller in communication with the receiver and sensor(s) for controlling the sensor(s) in response to the control signals; and a transmitter for transmitting environmental data and other communications to the navigator platform. 14. A robot system for performing one or more functional tasks in an environment, the system including: at least one functional robot platform; and at least one navigator platform providing mapping, localization, planning, and control functions for itself and said at least one functional robot platform; wherein said at least one functional robot platform includes first means for sensing information about the environment and second means for communicating such information to said at least one navigator platform; wherein the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform are based at least in part on the information about the environment from the at least one functional robot platform. 15. The system as set forth in claim 14, the at least one navigator platform including: at least one sensor for sensing information about the environment that is utilized in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; a controller in communication with the sensor(s) for providing mapping, localization, planning, and control processes for the navigator platform and other platforms within the environment; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting control signals and other communications to one or more other platforms within the environment. 16. The system as set forth in claim 14, the at least one functional robot platform further including: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from one or more stationary navigator platforms within the environment; and drive means for moving the at least one functional robot platform around within the environment in response to the control signals. 17. The system as set forth in claim 14, the at least one functional robot platform further including: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from one or more navigator platforms within the environment; drive means for moving the at least one functional robot platform around within the environment; at least one sensor for sensing the information about the environment that is communicated to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; a controller in communication with the receiver, drive means, and sensor(s) for controlling the drive means and sensor(s) in response to the control signals; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting environmental data and other communications to one or more navigator platforms within the environment. 18. The system as set forth in claim 14, further including: at least one stationary sensor platform separately spaced from the at least one navigator platform and in communication with one or more navigator platforms for sensing information about the environment and communicating such information to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform. 19. The system as set forth in claim 18, the at least one stationary sensor platform including: a receiver for receiving control signals and other communications from one or more navigator platforms within the environment; at least one sensor for sensing the information about the environment that is communicated to the at least one navigator platform for consideration in the mapping, localization, planning, and control functions provided by the at least one navigator platform; a controller in communication with the receiver and sensor(s) for controlling the sensor(s) in response to the control signals; and a transmitter for transmitting environmental data and other communications to one or more navigator platforms within the environment. 20. The system as set forth in claim 14, further including: at least one mobile navigator platform in communication with at least one other platform for providing mapping, localization, planning, and control functions for itself and at least one other platform within the environment. 21. The system as set forth in claim 20, the mobile navigator platform including: a receiver for receiving communications from other platforms within the environment, including environmental data from at least one of one or more functional robot platforms and one or more stationary navigator platforms; drive means for moving the mobile navigator platform around within the environment; a controller in communication with the receiver and drive means for providing mapping, localization, planning, and control processes for the navigator platform and other platforms within the environment; and a transmitter in communication with the controller for transmitting control signals and other communications to other platforms within the environment. 