Devices and methods for performing assays on materials, particularly biological materials, are provided. The devices and methods make use of self-sealing members, which can be applied to a flat surface to form wells to facilitate immobilization of materials on the flat surface, then removed to yield a flat surface that facilitates the performance of processes on and/or detection of the immobilized material.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A method of measuring enzyme activity, comprising: providing a base plate having a mating side; providing a removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining at least one orifice extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the removable member to the mating side of the base plate; adding at least one enzyme substrate to the at least one orifice for immobilizing the at least one enzyme substrate on the base plate; exposing the at least one enzyme substrate to at least one enzyme via the at least one orifice; and measuring a level of activity of the at least one enzyme by measuring changes in the at least one enzyme substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one orifice comprises a plurality of orifices; and wherein adding comprises adding at least one enzyme substrate to the plurality of orifices for immobilizing the at least one enzyme substrate on the base plate to form an enzyme substrate pattern on the base plate. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising treating the base plate to enhance an immobilization of the at least one enzyme substrate thereon. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such that binding of the at least one enzyme substrate is enhanced in discrete areas of the base plate and reduced or eliminated in other areas of the base plate. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed SAM, such that specific binding of the at least one enzyme substrate in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of the at least one enzyme substrate is reduced or eliminated. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with mixed SAM comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the enzyme substrate pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the enzyme substrate pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate having one of 96 wells, 384 wells, and 1536 wells. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one enzyme substrate comprises a plurality of species of enzyme substrates. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein adding at least one enzyme substrate comprises adding a single species of enzyme substrate to each of the plurality of orifices. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein adding at least one enzyme substrate comprises adding a plurality of species of enzyme substrates to each of the plurality of orifices. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein adding at least one enzyme comprises forming an ordered array of immobilized enzyme substrate within each of the plurality of orifices. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the ordered array in at least one orifice of the plurality of orifices is different from the ordered array in at least one other orifice of the plurality of orifices. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one enzyme comprises a plurality of species of kinase. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein exposing comprises adding a single species of kinase to each orifice of the plurality of orifices. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one enzyme is selected from the group consisting of: oxidoreductases, transferases, hychrolases, lyases, ligases, glycosyltransferases, glycosidases, kinases, phosphotases, phosphodiesterases, phosphoinositides, sulfotransferases, DNA modifying enzymes, restriction enzymes, polymerases, and non-peptidic kinases. 17. A method of measuring enzyme activity, comprising: providing a base plate having a flat mating side; providing a first removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining at least one first orifice extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface thereof; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the first removable member to the mating side of the base plate; adding at least one enzyme substrate to the at least one first orifice for immobilizing the at least one enzyme substrate on the base plate; removing the first removable member from the base plate to expose the flat mating side of the base plate free of adhesives; providing a second removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining at least one second orifice extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface thereof; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the second removable member to the mating side of the base plate; exposing the at least one enzyme substrate to at least one enzyme via the at least one second orifice; and measuring a level of activity of the at least one enzyme by measuring changes in the at least one enzyme substrate; removing the first removable member from the base plate to expose the flat mating side of the base plate free of adhesives; and measuring a level of activity of the at least one enzyme by measuring changes in the at least one enzyme substrate. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the at least one first orifice comprises a plurality of first orifices, and the at least one second orifice comprises a plurality of second orifices. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first removable member and the second removable member are configured such that at least one of the plurality of first orifices has a substantially similar size with respect to at least one of the plurality of second orifices, and registers with a corresponding one of said at least one of the plurality of second orifices if the first removable member and the second removable member are superimposed. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein at least one of the plurality of second orifices is of a different size than at least one orifice of the plurality of first orifices. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the first removable member and the second removable member are configured such that each of the second plurality of orifices exposes a plurality of areas of immobilized enzyme substrate corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of first orifices. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the at least one enzyme is selected from the group consisting of: oxidoreductases, transferases, hychrolases, lyases, ligases, glycosyltransferases, glycosidases, kinases, phosphotases, phosphodiesterases, phosphoinositides, sulfotransferases, DNA modifying enzymes, restriction enzymes, polymerases, and non-peptidic kinases. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein measuring comprises using a flatbed scanner. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein the at least one enzyme substrate comprises a plurality of species enzyme substrates. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein adding at least one enzyme substrate comprises adding a single species of enzyme substrate to each of the plurality of first orifices. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein adding at least one enzyme substrate comprises adding a plurality of species of enzymes substrates to each of the plurality of first orifices. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein adding at least one enzyme comprises forming an ordered array of immobilized enzyme substrate within each of the plurality of first orifices. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the ordered array in at least one orifice of the plurality of first orifices is different from the ordered array in at least one other orifice of the plurality of first orifices. 29. A method of measuring enzyme activity, comprising: providing a base plate having a mating side; providing a removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining at least one orifice extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the removable member to the mating side of the base plate; adding at least one enzyme substrate to the at least one orifice for immobilizing the at least one enzyme substrate on the base plate; removing the removable member from the base plate after adding at least one enzyme substrate; exposing the at least one enzyme substrate to at least one enzyme via the at least one orifice; and measuring a level of activity of the at least one enzyme by measuring changes in the at least one enzyme substrate. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the at least one orifice comprises a plurality of orifices; and wherein adding comprises adding at least one enzyme substrate to the plurality of orifices for immobilizing the at least one enzyme substrate on the base plate to form an enzyme substrate pattern on the base plate. 31. The method of claim 29, further comprising treating the base plate to enhance an immobilization of the at least one enzyme substrate thereon. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such that binding of the at least one enzyme substrate is enhanced in discrete areas of the base plate and reduced or eliminated in other areas of the base plate. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed SAM, such that specific binding of the at least one enzyme substrate in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of the at least one enzyme substrate is reduced or eliminated. 34. The method of claim 31, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with mixed SAM comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups. 35. The method of claim 30, wherein the enzyme substrate pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the enzyme substrate pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate having one of 96 wells, 384 wells, and 1536 wells. 37. The method of claim 29, wherein the said at least one enzyme is selected from the group consisting of: oxidoreductases, transferases, hychrolases, lyases, ligases, glycosyltransferases, glycosidases, kinases, phosphotases, phosphodiesterases, phosphoinositides, sulfotransferases, DNA modifying enzymes, restriction enzymes, polymerases, and non-peptidic kinases. 38. The method of claim 29, wherein the at least one enzyme substrate comprises a plurality of species enzyme substrates. 39. The method of claim 29, wherein adding at least one enzyme substrate comprises adding a single species of enzyme substrate to each of the plurality of orifices. 40. The method of claim 29, wherein adding at least one enzyme substrate comprises adding a plurality of species of enzymes substrates to each of the plurality of orifices. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein adding at least one enzyme comprises forming an ordered array of immobilized enzyme substrate within each of the plurality of orifices. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the ordered array in at least one orifice of the plurality of orifices is different from the ordered array in at least one other orifice of the plurality of orifices. 43. The method of claim 29, wherein the at least one enzyme comprises a plurality of species of enzymes. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein adding at least one enzyme comprises adding a single species of enzyme to each orifice of the plurality of orifices. 