A process of cleaning of objects that relate to semiconductor fabrication processes, such as, for example, conductive paste screening in the production of multilayer ceramic substrates and composite solder paste by stencil printing in electronic circuit assembly. Specifically, the process removes a metal/polymer composite paste from screening masks and associated paste making and processing equipment used in printing conductive metal pattern onto ceramic green sheet in the fabrication of semiconductor packaging substrates. The process also cleans solder paste residue from stencil printing equipment used in electronic module assembly surface mount technology for SMT discretes, solder column attachment, and BGA (Ball Grid Array) attachment on ceramic chip carrier or for screening solder paste onto printed circuit board. More particularly, paste residue is cleaned from metal, ceramic, and plastic substrates by a non-alkaline semi-aqueous cleaning method employing high boiling propylene glycol alkyl ether or mixtures of propylene glycol alkyl ether and propylene glycol solvents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cleaning a conductive or soldering paste residue from at least one object selected from the group consisting of screening mask, paste processing parts used in the production of ceramic substrates or plastic substrates, screen stencils, stencil printing equipment, paste dispense substrate, ceramic substrate and plastic substrate, the apparatus comprising: (a) at least one first tank containing a solvent consisting of at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether and at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether, wherein temperature of said solvent in said first tank is between about 45 to about 80.degree. C., said first tank further having at least one ultrasonic agitator, (b) at least one second tank having preheated water at between about 45 to about 70.degree. C., and (c) at least one means for handling said object, so as to immerse said object in said first tank and subject said object to ultrasonic agitation for between about 1 to about 10 mm, and transfer said object from said first tank to said second tank and subject said object to at least one of immersion array and ultrasonic agitation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one third tank, and wherein said means for handling said object includes means for transferring said object from said second tank to said third tank and subjecting said object to at least one of spray rinse and ultrasonic agitation for between about 30 sec to about 120 sec. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one filter for removing particulate matter from said solvent. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for distilling said solvent to recover said solvent for reuse. 