Method for producing multiple chemical reactions and for rapid screening of chemicals, catalysts, process conditions and the like is disclosed. The method includes the steps of providing an array of reactor vessels and reactants; loading each reactor vessel with at least one reactant; and allowing the reactions to proceed for a predetermined time interval. A volume increment is withdrawn from each reactor vessel and a volume increment of at least one reactant is added to each reactor vessel in the array. The steps of volume increment withdrawal and addition are repeated after successive time intervals until the reactions reach a substantially steady state. The loading, withdrawal, and addition steps are performed by liquid or solid handling robots. In one embodiment, the volume increment withdrawal occurs before, after, or contemporaneously with the volume increment addition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing multiple chemical reactions and catalytic systems in the reaction of at least one monohydroxyaromatic compound and at least one aldehyde or ketone to produce at least one bisphenol in batch reactors emulating the conditions of continuous reactors by incremental flow, comprising the steps of: (a) providing an array of reactor vessels and reactants; (b) loading each of the reactor vessels with at least one reactant; (c) allowing the reactions to proceed for a predetermined time interval; (d) withdrawing a volume increment from each reactor vessel; (e) adding a volume increment of at least one reactant to each reactor vessel; and thereafter (f) repeating steps (c), (d), and (e) until such time the reactions reach a substantially steady state. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactants include a substituted or unsubstituted monocyclic, monohydroxyaromatic compound, or a substituted or unsubstituted polycyclic, monohydroxyaromatic compound. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reactants include phenol. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the reactants include at least one aryl aldehyde comprising 1-30 carbon atoms or at least one alkyl aldehyde comprising 1-30 carbon atoms, or at least one ketone selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl ketones, symmetrical dialkyl ketones, and unsymmetrical dialkyl ketones, wherein aryl and alkyl groups each independently comprise 1-30 carbon atoms. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the reactants include acetone. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the reaction comprises formation of at least one bisphenol of formula (I): ##STR4## wherein A.sup.1 represents an aromatic group; E represents an alkylene group, an alkylidene group, or a cycloaliphatic group; R.sup.1 represents hydrogen or a monovalent hydrocarbon group; Y.sup.1 represents an inorganic atom, a halogen atom, an inorganic group, nitro, an organic group, alkenyl, allyl, or hydrogen or a monovalent hydrocarbon group, or an oxy group OR wherein R is an alkyl group; the letter "m" represents any integer from and including zero through the number of positions on A.sup.1 available for substitution; and "p" represents an integer from and including zero through the number of positions on E available for substitution. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the reaction comprises formation of bisphenol A. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the added volume increment comprises a substituted or unsubstituted monocyclic, monohydroxyaromatic compound, or a substituted or unsubstituted polycyclic, monohydroxyaromatic compound. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the added volume increment comprises phenol. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the added volume increment comprises at least one aryl aldehyde comprising 1-30 carbon atoms or at least one alkyl aldehyde comprising 1-30 carbon atoms, or at least one ketone selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl ketones, symmetrical dialkyl ketones, and unsymmetrical dialkyl ketones, wherein aryl and alkyl groups each independently comprise 1-30 carbon atoms. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the added volume increment comprises acetone. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the added volume increment comprises phenol and acetone. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the reactants further include an acid catalyst. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the acid catalyst comprises an ion exchange resin. 15. The method of claim 2, wherein the reactants further include a reaction promoter. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume increment withdrawal occurs before, after, or contemporaneously with the volume increment addition. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the loading, withdrawal, and addition steps are performed by a liquid or solid handling robot. 18. The method of claim 1, further including the step of controlling the size of the volume increments withdrawn and added and the time interval between the additions of the volume increments to obtain a desired reactor residence time. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume increments are withdrawn from the reactor vessels by positioning a probe at a predetermined level in the reactor vessels and withdrawing reactor fluid until no further fluid can be withdrawn at that level. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the time intervals and the volume increments are selected to obtain a desired space velocity defined by the following equation: ##EQU6## wherein: .DELTA.t=time interval (minutes); .DELTA.V=volume increment added (microliters); .rho.=density of the volume increment added (grams per milliliter); SV=space velocity (grams liquid feed per grams resin per hour); and R=amount of resin (milligrams). 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the withdrawal and addition steps are controlled in the reactor vessels so as to produce sub-interval concentration gradients during the course of the reactions. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein large volume additions followed by sequential withdrawals of smaller volume increments are made to the reactor vessels at predetermined subintervals within the time interval. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume increments withdrawn from the reactor vessels are analyzed for concentration of reactants and product. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume increments withdrawn from the reactor vessels are pooled and then analyzed to provide cumulative concentration gradient data. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein after the reactions are allowed to proceed for a predetermined time interval, the volume increments are withdrawn and added simultaneously in each of the reactor vessels. 26. A method for high throughput screening of chemicals, catalysts, reactants, and process conditions in the reaction of phenol and acetone to produce bisphenol A in batch reactors emulating the conditions of continuous reactors by incremental flow, comprising the steps of: (a) providing an array of reactor vessels and reactants; (b) loading each of the reactor vessels with at least one reactant; (c) allowing the reactions to proceed for a predetermined time interval; (d) withdrawing a volume increment from each reactor vessel; (e) adding a volume increment of at least one reactant to each reactor vessel; and thereafter (f) repeating steps (c), (d), and (e) until such time the reactions reach a substantially steady state. 27. The method of claim 26, further including the step of selecting the predetermined time intervals and the volume increments to obtain a desired space velocity. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the desired space velocity is defined by the following equation: ##EQU7## wherein: .DELTA.t=time interval (minutes); .DELTA.V=volume increment added (microliters); .rho.=density of the volume increment added (grams per milliliter); SV=space velocity (grams liquid feed per grams resin per hour); and R=amount of resin (milligrams). 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the added volume increment comprises phenol. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein the added volume increment comprises acetone. 31. The method of claim 26, wherein the added volume increment comprises phenol and acetone. 32. The method of claim 26, wherein the reactants further include an acid catalyst. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the acid catalyst comprises an ion exchange resin. 34. The method of claim 26, wherein the reactants further include a reaction promoter. 35. The method of claim 26, wherein the volume increment withdrawal occurs before, after, or contemporaneously with the volume increment addition. 36. The method of claim 26, wherein the loading, withdrawal, and addition steps are performed by a liquid or solid handling robot. 37. The method of claim 26, further including the step of controlling the size of the volume increments withdrawn and added and the time interval between the additions of the volume increments to obtain a desired reactor residence time. 38. The method of claim 26, wherein the volume increments are withdrawn from the reactor vessels by positioning a probe at a predetermined level in the reactor vessels and withdrawing reactor fluid until no further fluid can be withdrawn at that level. 39. The method of claim 26, wherein the withdrawal and addition steps are controlled in the reactor vessels so as to produce sub-interval concentration gradients during the course of the reactions. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein large volume additions followed by sequential withdrawals of smaller volume increments are made to the reactor vessels at predetermined subintervals within the time interval. 41. The method of claim 26, wherein the volume increments withdrawn from the reactor vessels are analyzed for concentration of reactants and product. 42. The method of claim 26, wherein the volume increments withdrawn from the reactor vessels are pooled and then analyzed to provide cumulative concentration gradient data. 43. The method of claim 26, wherein after the reactions are allowed to proceed for a predetermined time interval, the volume increments are withdrawn and added simultaneously in each of the reactor vessels. 