A flexible tactile sensor, comprising a flexible distributed array of force sensors that generate electric signals in response to an applied load, a flexible, electrically-insulating matrix having outer faces, one face against the array of force sensors, and a plurality of spaced electrically conductive pathways through the matrix between its faces, with insulating matrix material between the pathways, to carry the electric signals generated by the force sensors to the other face of the matrix.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible tactile sensor, comprising: a flexible distributed array of force sensors that generate electric signals in response to an applied load; a flexible, electrically-insulating matrix having outer faces, one face against the array of force sensors; and a plurality of spaced electrically conductive pathways through the matrix between its faces, with insulating matrix material between the pathways, to carry the electric signals generated by the force sensors to the other face of the matrix. 2. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 1 in which the force sensors comprise piezoelectric elements. 3. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 1 in which the force sensors are embedded in an elastomeric matrix. 4. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 3 in which the flexible distributed array of force sensors comprises a 1-3 piezo composite. 5. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 1 in which the insulating matrix comprises an anisotropic conductive elastomer wherein said conductive pathways define columns of conducting particles. 6. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 1 further comprising a flexible circuit element against the other face of the matrix. 7. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 6 wherein the flexible circuit element defines a plurality of separate conductive pathways. 8. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 7 wherein the flexible circuit element comprises a plurality of electric contact pads on at least the surface that is against the matrix. 9. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 6 further comprising a protective flexible layer on the side of the flexible circuit element that is not against the other face of the matrix. 10. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 1 further comprising electric circuit elements disposed on the other face of the matrix and in electrical contact with conductive pathways through the matrix. 11. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 1 further comprising an electrical connector that conducts electric signals generated by the force sensors and passed through the conductive pathways of the matrix. 12. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 11 further comprising an electrical device that receives the signals conducted by the connector. 13. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 12 in which the electrical device comprises a microprocessor. 14. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 11 further comprising a wireless transmitter and transmitter power source, the transmitter operatively connected to the electrical connector, for remotely transmitting electric signals generated by the force sensors. 15. An electronic tactile sensing shoe sole comprising the flexible tactile sensor of claim 6 sized and shaped to fit in a shoe. 16. An electronic tactile sensing glove for an artificial hand comprising the flexible tactile sensor of claim 6 at an external portion of an artificial hand. 17. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 16 further comprising an external elastomeric artificial skin layer covering and environmentally sealing the array of force sensors. 18. A flexible tactile sensor, comprising: a flexible distributed array of force sensors that generate electric signals in response to an applied load, in which the flexible distributed array of force sensors comprises a 1-3 piezo composite wherein the force sensors comprise piezoelectric elements embedded in an elastomeric matrix; a flexible, electrically-insulating matrix having outer faces, one face against the array of force sensors; a plurality of spaced electrically conductive pathways through the matrix between its faces, with insulating matrix material between the pathways, to carry the electric signals generated by the force sensors to the other face of the matrix in which the conductive pathways comprise conducting particles; a flexible circuit element against the other face of the matrix, in which the flexible circuit element defines a plurality of separate conductive pathways and wherein the flexible circuit element comprises a plurality of electric contact pads on at least the surface that is against the matrix; and a protective flexible layer on the side of the flexible circuit element that is not against the other face of the matrix. 19. An electronic tactile sensing shoe sole, comprising: a flexible distributed array of force sensors that generate electric signals in response to an applied load, in which the flexible distributed array of force sensors comprises a 1-3 piezo composite wherein the force sensors comprise piezoelectric elements embedded in an elastomeric matrix; a flexible, electrically-insulating matrix having outer faces, one face against the array of force sensors; a plurality of spaced electrically conductive pathways through the matrix between its faces, with insulating matrix material between the pathways, to carry the electric signals generated by the force sensors to the other face of the matrix in which the conductive pathways comprise conducting particles; and a flexible circuit element against the other face of the matrix; wherein the flexible tactile sensor is sized and shaped to fit in a shoe. 20. The flexible tactile sensor of claim 18, wherein said insulating matrix comprises an anisotropic conductive elastomer wherein said conductive pathways define columns of conducting particles. 21. The shoe sole of claim 19, wherein said insulating matrix comprises an anisotropic conductive elastomer wherein said conductive pathways define columns of conducting particles. 