An array of probes is provided wherein the probes are maintained in place in bores extending through a housing by a friction force applied to the probes. The friction force can be overcome by another force applied to the probes, thereby allowing the probes to move to a new position within the bore. In one embodiment, the probes contain an internal conduit through which liquid samples are introduced into the probes. Thereafter, the probes are moved to contact a substrate surface to move the probes to a new position, the configuration of which replicates the substrate surface configuration. The housing is then raised a predetermined distance to allow sample to be accurately deposited on the substrate surface from a desired height above the substrate surface. The probes are then returned to their original position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for delivering fluid samples to a substrate surface comprising: a probe housing; a plurality of probes having an internal conduit adapted to be connected to a sample source for receiving and passing a fluid sample therethrough, each probe positioned within a bore in the probe housing; a friction element adapted to apply a frictional force to each of the probes of sufficient magnitude to retain the probes within the probe housing; a probe driver adapted to move the probe housing toward or away from the substrate surface; wherein in response to the probes contacting the substrate surface an axial force in excess of the frictional force is applied to the probes to move at least some of the probes from their initial position to a new position, and wherein in the absence of the application of the axial force the probes are retained at the new position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the friction element is a spring. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the friction element is an O-ring. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a controller operatively coupled to the probe driver and adapted to over drive the probe housing after initial contact with the substrate surface. 5. A system for dispensing a plurality of liquid samples from a desired height comprising: a substrate with a surface for receiving the liquid sample; a probe housing having a plurality of bores extending therethrough; a plurality of probes each positioned within a respective bore and each having an internal conduit adapted to be connected to a sample source for receiving and passing a liquid sample therethrough; a friction element adapted to apply a frictional force to each of the probes of sufficient magnitude to retain the probes within the probe housing; a probe driver adapted to move the probe housing with respect to the substrate surface; a controller operatively coupled to the probe driver for controlling the movement of the probe housing and the intake and expulsion of the liquid sample within the internal conduit of the probe; wherein in response to the probes contacting the substrate surface an axial force in excess of the frictional force is applied to the probes to move at least some of the probes from their initial position to a new position; and wherein in response to the controller the probe housing is caused to move a predetermined distance above the surface of the substrate after contact therewith such that the axial force is no longer applied and the frictional force retains the probes in the new position to effect accurate dispensing of liquid sample on the surface of the substrate. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the friction element is a spring. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein the friction element is an O-ring. 8. The system of claim 5 wherein the controller is adapted to over drive the probe housing after initial contact with the substrate surface. 9. The system of claim 5 wherein the substrate is a MALDI sample plate. 10. A process for delivering a plurality of fluid samples to a substrate surface comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of probes each positioned within a respective bore of a probe housing and each having an internal conduit adapted to be connected to a sample source for receiving and passing a liquid sample therethrough; applying a frictional force to each of the probes of sufficient magnitude to retain the probes within the probe housing; contacting the probes with the substrate surface to apply a second force to the probes sufficient to overcome the frictional force to move at least some of the probes from an initial position to a new position. 11. The process of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: aspirating a volume of air into the internal conduit of the probes; aspirating a liquid sample into the internal conduit of the probes; moving the probe housing to a desired height above the substrate surface; and depositing the liquid samples from the probes onto the substrate surface. 12. The process of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: washing the internal conduit of the probes; and applying a third force to move the probes back to their initial position. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein the third force is applied to a plate in contact with all of the probes. 14. Apparatus for delivering a plurality of samples to a substrate surface comprising: a probe housing; a plurality of probes positioned within a bore in the probe housing; a friction element adapted to apply a frictional force to each of the probes of sufficient magnitude to retain the probes within the probe housing; a driver adapted to move the probe housing toward or away from the substrate surface; wherein in response to the probes contacting the substrate surface a second force in excess of the frictional force is applied to the probes to move at least,some of the probes from their initial position to a new position, and wherein in the absence of the application of the axial force the probes are retained at the new position. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein in the absence of the application of the second force the probes are retained at the new position. 16. Apparatus for delivering fluid samples to a substrate surface which comprises: a plurality of probes having an internal conduit for passing a fluid therethrough, each of the probes positioned within a bore in a probe housing; a friction element adapted to apply a frictional force to the probes to retain the probes within the housing; means for applying a second force to the probes in excess of the frictional force to contact an outlet end of the probes with the substrate surface whereby the probes are moved from an initial position; means for aspirating a fluid sample into the internal conduit of the probes; and means for expelling the fluid samples from the conduits onto a solid substrate surface. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising means for applying a third force to the probes which is in excess of the frictional force to return the probes to the initial position. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the friction element comprises a spring. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the friction element is an O-ring. 20. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the substrate is a MALDI sample plate. 