Methods for operating a laser scanning system are disclosed. The laser scanning system can be used in construction projects to generate a field survey. An architect or engineer can use the field survey to create construction drawings. In addition, relevant points from the construction drawings can be identified at the construction site with the scanning system. Further, earth moving equipment can be controlled using the same information. The laser scanning system can also be used to determine if two parts can be mated together by scanning and comparing the parts that are to be mated. The laser scanning system can further be used to determine if an object can be moved through an opening in a structure by comparing scan points of the structure with scan points from the object. The laser scanning system can additionally be used to identifying objects within the site, to build databases that have relevant information about the objects, and to guide reproducing machines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a laser scanner, the method comprising the steps of: scanning a site with the laser scanner to create a field survey, the field survey having a number of scan points; registering the number of scan points with defined points in a drawing of the site to form registered data; identifying a location of interest from the registered data; and illuminating a position at the site with a laser beam from the laser scanner that corresponds with the location of interest. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the location of interest is a location on the ground representing a feature from a to-be-constructed buildings. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the location of interest is identified by illuminating a device positioned above the surface of the ground. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the device reflects the laser beam back to the laser scanner, and wherein the laser scanner indicates direction to reach the location of interest. 5. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: rescanning the site with the laser scanner to obtain a number of rescan points, the rescan points corresponding to a number of the scan points and a number of the defined points; and comparing the rescan points with the corresponding defined points. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the comparison indicates an amount of the defined points that are represented by a physical structure. 7. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: rescanning the site with the laser scanner to obtain a number of rescan points, the rescan points defining an opening in a structure; scanning an object to be placed within the structure to obtain a number of object points; and comparing the rescan points with the object points to determine if the object can be moved through the opening to be placed within the structure. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the laser scanner is remotely operated. 9. A method for operating a laser scanner, the method comprising the steps of: scanning a site with a laser scanner to obtain a number of scan points, the scan points defining a first structure and including a number of first mating points; scanning a second structure built to be mated to the first structure to obtain a number of second mating points; and comparing the first mating points with the second mating points to determine if the second structure can be mated to the first structure. 10. A method for operating a laser scanner, the method comprising the steps of: scanning a site with the laser scanner to obtain a number of scan points, the scan points defining an opening in a structure; scanning an object to be placed within the structure to obtain a number of object points; and comparing the scan points with the object points to determine if the object can be moved through the opening to be placed within the structure. 11. The method of claim 10 and further comprising the step of guiding the object into the opening. 