An automated welding system utilizing integrally mounted robots within a self-contained and repositionable work station. One or more work tables are shuttled between loading and welding stations. The robot is mounted directly adjacent the operating stage, thereby drastically reducing the required floor space. The robot arm is designed to be programed to replicate a desired welding operation in an automated fashion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for welding, comprising: a self-contained, portable enclosure defining a work space which further comprises one or more side walls, a bottom frame, a top frame and one or more side frames; a table frame affixed to said bottom frame, said one or more side frames with or both; at least one work surface selectively positionable on said table frame between a loading position and an operating position; at least one robot positioned above said work surface; at least one window disposed in at least one side wall; at least one shutter disposed on said at least one side wall and selectively positionable to cover and uncover said at least one window; drive means mounted within said work space for positioning said at least one robot and said at least one work surface; sensor means mounted within said work space for determining the positions of said at least one robot and said at least one work surface; computer means affixed to said enclosure for controlling said drive means and said sensor means; and a welding head mounted to said at least one robot. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said robot is mounted to said top frame. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said robot is mounted to one of said one or more side frames. 4. The invention of claim 1, which further comprises said at least one work surface positionable on a linear axis between a loading position and an operating position. 5. An apparatus for welding, comprising: a self-contained, portable enclosure defining a work space which further comprises one or more side walls, a bottom frame, a top frame and one or more side frames; a table frame affixed to said bottom frame, said one or more side frames with or both; a pair of adjacent work surfaces selectively positionable on said table frame between a loading position and an operating position; at least one robot positioned above said work surface; at least one window disposed in at least one side wall; at least one shutter disposed on said at least one side wall and selectively positionable to cover and uncover said at least one window; drive means mounted within said work space for positioning said at least one robot and said at least one work surface; sensor means mounted within said work space for determining the positions of said at least one robot and said at least one work surface; computer means affixed to said enclosure for controlling said drive means and said sensor means; and a welding head mounted to said at least one robot. 6. The invention of claim 5, wherein each of said pair of selectively positionable work surfaces is positionable on a linear axis between a loading position and an operating position. 