The present invention provides an apparatus and method for automated and rapid loading of a large number of samples for mass spectrometric analysis using various ionization methods (e.g. matrix assisted desorption by laser bombardment (MALDI) and atmosperic pressure ionization (API) methods such as electrospray). The aparatus utilizes microtiter plates to hold the sample, optical elements (e.g. fiber optic) to facilitate automated transport of the ions, and a multiple part capillary comprising at least two capillary sections joined with airtight seal by a union for use in mass spectrometry (particularly with ionization sources) to transport ions between pressure regions of a mass spectrometer for analysis is described herein. Preferably, the capillary is useful to transport ions from an elevated pressure ionization source to a first vacuum region of a mass analysis system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for collecting samples for mass spectrometric analysis, said apparatus comprising: a tray positioned external to a mass analyzer for holding sample material; a capillary having an inlet end and an outlet end, said inlet end for receiving ions from said tray and said outlet end for introducing said ions into said mass analyzer; and a robotic interface for controlling the position of said inlet end to accept ions produced from said sample material on said tray; wherein said outlet end of said capillary is positioned such that said ions are introduced into said mass analyzer. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary comprises a channel having a helical structure. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said inlet ends and said outlet ends comprise conductive end caps. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said ions are transported from said tray into a first vacuum region of said mass analyzer. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein ionization of said sample material is performed using a matrix assisted laser desorption ionization source. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is used to multiplex a plurality of sample materials. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary is a multiple section capillary having a first section including an inlet end and an outlet end, said first section for receiving ions from said tray, and a second section having an inlet end and an outlet end, wherein said outlet end of said first section is coaxially positioned with said inlet end of said second section, and said outlet end of said second section is positioned such that said ions are introduced into a mass analyzer. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a helical structure. 9. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a linear structure. 10. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a sinusoidal structure. 11. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said first and second sections are removably connected with a union. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said union comprises means for providing an airtight seal between said ends of said first and second sections within said union. 13. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said first section is composed of a flexible material. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary is composed of a flexible material. 15. An apparatus for introducing ions produced from a sample material into a mass spectrometer, said apparatus comprising: a tray for holding at least one type of said sample material; a multiple section capillary including first and second capillary sections each having an inlet end and an outlet end; a union for coaxially connecting said first capillary section to said second capillary section; and a robotic interface including means for producing ions from said sample material and means for controlling said inlet end of said first capillary section to accept said ions; wherein said outlet end of said first capillary section is removably positioned within said union, and wherein said inlet of said second capillary section is removably positioned within said union such that said ions flow from said first section into said second section. 16. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a helical structure. 17. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said union comprises means for removably securing said ends of said first and second sections. 18. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said union comprises means for providing an airtight seal between said ends of said first and second sections within said union. 19. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said inlet ends and said outlet ends of said capillary sections comprise conductive end caps. 20. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said ions are transported from said tray into a first vacuum region of said mass analyzer. 21. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein ionization of said sample material is performed by a matrix assisted laser desorption ionization. 22. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said apparatus is used to multiplex a plurality of sample materials. 23. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said first section is composed of a flexible material. 