A method and process sequence for accurately aligning (die to interconnect metal on flex substrate such as polyimide flex is described. A mask for via formation is first patterned in a metal layer on the bottom surface of the flex substrate. Die attach means such as die attach adhesive is then applied to the top side of flex substrate. The bond pads on die are locally, adaptively aligned to the patterned metal via mask on the flex with high accuracy. Vias down to the die bond pads are then created by either plasma etching or excimer laser ablation through the existing aligned metal mask on the flex substrate, and interconnect metal is then deposited, patterned and etched. As a result of this process, the flex metal interconnect artwork does not have to be customized for each die misplacement using "adaptive lithography". Lower cost commercially available lithography equipment can be used for processing, reducing capital equipment and processing cost. The method is compatible with the projected designs of the next generation die which will have bond pads on the order of 40um in size.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for aligning die to a via mask layer on a flex substrate to produce at least one electronic chip package, the apparatus comprising: means for patterning a mask for via formation in said via mask layer on a bottom surface of said flex substrate; and means for adaptively aligning at least one bond pad of at least one said die to at least one local fiducial of said via mask layer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for adaptively aligning comprise: a first camera for locating said local fiducials of said via mask layer; a second camera for locating said bond pads of said die; and a control system and actuator for adaptively aligning said bond pads and said local fiducials with one another based upon the locations of said local fiducials located by said first camera and the locations of said bond pads located by said second camera. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: means for attaching said at least one bond pad to a top surface of said flex substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, said local fiducials comprising via drop openings, the apparatus further comprising: means for opening vias from said bottom surface of said flex substrate to said bond pads at said via drop openings. 