A magnetic drive system for moving a substrate transfer shuttle along a linear path between chambers in a semiconductor fabrication apparatus. A rack with rack magnets is secured to the shuttle, and a rotatable pinion with pinion magnets is positioned adjacent the rack so that the pinion magnets can magnetically engage the rack magnets. Thus, rotation of the pinion will cause the shuttle to move along the linear path. The magnets may be oriented with a helix angle between their primary axis and the axis of rotation of the pinion. One rack and one pinion are located on each side of the shuttle. A set of lower guide rollers supports the shuttle, and a set of upper guide rollers prevents the shuttle from lifting off the lower guide rollers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing a process on a substrate, comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a valve disposed between the first chamber and the second chamber; a substrate support movable along a path between the first chamber and the second chamber, wherein the substrate support is disposed within the second chamber while the valve is closed and processing occurs in the first chamber; and a magnetic drive including a first magnetic surface on the movable substrate support to generate a first magnetic field and a plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces disposed outside the first chamber and the second chamber to generate a plurality of second magnetic fields, the first magnetic field magnetically engageable with the plurality of second magnetic fields so that movement of the plurality of second magnetic fields causes the substrate support to move along the path, wherein the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces rotate about one or more shafts positioned orthogonal to the path and fixed relative thereto. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces comprise a plurality of electromagnets. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces comprise permanent magnets. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein movement of the plurality of second magnetic fields is caused by movement of the plurality of second magnetic surfaces. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a plurality of guide rollers to support the substrate support. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a magnetic levitation assembly to magnetically levitate the substrate support. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces comprise a first set of magnetic surfaces disposed on a first side of the valve and a second set of magnetic surfaces disposed on the other side of the valve. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first set of magnetic surfaces provides a first component of the second magnetic field and the second set of magnetic surfaces provides a second component of the second magnetic field wherein the movement of the first or second magnetic field causes the substrate support to move along the path. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first set of magnetic surfaces are adjacent the first chamber and engage the first magnetic surface to move the substrate support along the path toward the second chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces are adjacent the first chamber and engage the first magnetic surface to move the substrate support along the path from the first chamber into the second chamber. 11. An apparatus for performing a process on a substrate, comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a valve disposed between the first chamber and the second chamber; a substrate support movable along a generally linear path between the first chamber and the second chamber, wherein the substrate support is disposed within the second chamber while the valve is closed and processing occurs in the first chamber; and a magnetic drive including a first magnetic surface on the substrate support and a plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces located outside the first chamber and the second chamber, wherein the first magnetic surface is magnetically engageable with the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces so that movement of at least one of the magnetic fields generated by the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces causes the substrate support to move along the path, the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces including a plurality of movable magnets, wherein the plurality of movable magnets are mounted to a rotatable shaft disposed generally orthogonal to the linear path and disposed on a first side of the valve. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each of the movable magnets engages with the first magnetic surface in a sequential order to move the substrate support along the linear path through the valve. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the plurality of movable magnets are mounted to a rotatable shaft disposed generally orthogonal to the linear path and disposed on a second side of the valve. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein each of the movable magnets engages with the first magnetic surface in a sequential order to move the substrate support along the linear path through the valve. 15. An apparatus for processing substrates, comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber in communication with the first chamber; a valve disposed between the first chamber and the second chamber; a guide system defining a path extending through at least the first chamber, valve, and second chamber; and a magnetic drive including a first magnetic surface on a movable substrate support to generate a first magnetic field and a plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces disposed on one or more shafts positioned orthogonal to the path and fixed relative thereto, the guide system configured to support and guide the movable substrate support along the path and the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces being disposed outside at least one of the first chamber, the second chamber, and the valve, wherein the movable second magnetic surfaces generate a plurality of second magnetic fields magnetically engageable with the first magnetic field so that movement of the plurality of second magnetic fields causes the substrate support to move along the path. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein at least one of the first chamber or the second chamber includes a vertically actuatable platen to lift a substrate from the movable substrate support and position the substrate for processing within the first chamber or the second chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the guide system includes a plurality of upper guide rollers and a plurality of lower guide rollers configured to movably support the substrate support there between. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces comprise a plurality of electromagnets. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein movement of the plurality of second magnetic fields is caused by movement of the plurality of second magnetic surfaces. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a control system configured to control rotation of the plurality of movable second magnetic surfaces about the one or more shafts. 