A method of forming a hollow section body by deposition of a weld material includes the steps of providing a welding head 12 and a turntable 36 on which the body is to be formed, supplying a weld material to the welding head 12, the weld material to be deposited on the turntable 36 and connecting the turntable 36 and the welding head 12 to a supply of electricity to form an arc between the welding head 12 and the turntable 36 or the body to melt the material. The method includes the steps of manipulating the turntable 36 and the welding head 12 relative to one another to deposit material to form a first wall 40, manipulating the turntable 36 and the welding head 12 relative to one another to deposit material for form a second wall 42 extending from an angle to the first wall 40 and manipulating the turntable 36 and the welding head 12 relative to one another to deposit material to form a third wall 44 joining the first two walls, to form a hollow section body. The hollow section body may be for forming part of a casing structure for a gas turbine engine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a body by deposition of a weld material, the method including the steps of: providing a welding head; providing a support member upon which the body is to be formed; supplying a weld material to the welding head, the weld material to be deposited on the support member; and connecting the support member and the welding head to a supply of electricity to form an arc between the welding head and one of the support member and the body to melt the material, the method further including the steps of: manipulating the support member and the welding head relative to one another to deposit material to form a first wall; manipulating the support member and the welding head relative to one another to deposit material to form a second wall extending from and angled to the first wall; and manipulating the support member and the welding head relative to one another to deposit material to form a third wall joining the first two walls to form a hollow section body. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein each wall is axi-symmetrical. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the hollow section body forms part of a casing structure for a gas turbine engine. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the electrical supply is controlled such that during the formation of each wall, the current is higher during the formation of a proximal base part of the wall than it is during the formation of a mid part of the wall, such that the base part of the wall is broader than the mid part of the wall. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the electrical supply is controlled such that during the formation of each wall, the current is higher when forming a distal part of the wall than when forming the mid part of the wall, such that the distal part of the wall is broader than the mid part of the wall. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein during the formation of the first wall, the support member is oriented substantially horizontally and the welding head substantially vertically, such that a substantially vertical first wall is produced. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein following the formation of the first wall, the support member is tilted to an angle of between 10.degree. and 50.degree. to the horizontal and the second wall deposited onto the first wall at an angle thereto. 8. A method according to claim 1, where following formation of the second wall, the support member is manipulated such that the second wall is angled to the vertical and the support member and the welding head are then manipulated to form the third wall, joining the first and second walls. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes the step of further producing fourth and optionally subsequent walls, the walls together forming a hollow section body. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein during the formation of an angled wall, the welding head is initially oriented substantially vertically, and as the wall is built up, the orientation of the head is gradually altered such that its angle to the vertical gradually increases. 11. A method according to claim 1, the method including the steps of: initially producing one of two and three dimensional model of the body to be formed, using computer aided design and computer aided manufacturing software; taking into account the geometry of the support member and of the means for manipulating the welding head, producing a defined path for the welding head to follow; using the above information to produce a welding program in which each positionable point for the welding head is defined; and utilising the above program to control the means for manipulating the welding head. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes the use of a robot for manipulating the welding head, the robot having at least six degrees of freedom of movement. 