A robotic apparatus has eight actuators (M0-M7) and a linkage (LINK 0-LINK 5) that actuates an end effector. Three serial macro freedoms have large ranges of motion and inertias. Four serial micro freedoms have small ranges of motion and inertias. Translation of the end effector in any direction is actuated by at least one micro joint. The apparatus can be part of a master and slave combination, providing force feedback without any explicit force sensors. The slave is controlled with an Inverse Jacobian controller, and the master with a Jacobian Transpose controller. A slave having more degrees-of-freedom (DOFs) than the master can be controlled. A removable effector unit actuates its DOFs with cables. Beating heart surgery can be accomplished by commanding the slave to move with a beating heart, and cancelling out any such motion in the motions perceived by the master.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A method of performing surgery, comprising: providing a remotely-controlled robotic surgical instrument having an elongate shaft with a longitudinal axis and a distal end, said distal end coupled to a wrist element, said wrist element fiber coupled to an end effector, said wrist element having a plurality of wrist segments pivotally jointed together, tracking the motion of a moving portion of a patient's beating heart; and moving at least a portion of said wrist element to permit said end effector element to track motion of said moving heart portion without moving said longitudinal shaft of said instrument. 2. A method of controlling movement of a surgical instrument at a surgical site, comprising: providing the surgical instrument, said surgical instrument having an elongate shaft suitable for insertion through a patient's body wall aperture, said elongate shaft having a longitudinal axis and a distal end, said instrument further comprising a wrist mechanism coupled to said shaft distal end and an end effector coupled to said wrist mechanism, said wrist mechanism comprising a plurality of wrist segments pivotally coupled together, said wrist segments providing the instrument with redundant degrees of freedom of motion; tracking movement of a moving portion of said surgical site; and causing said end effector to track said movement by pivoting the wrist segments while the elongate shaft remains substantially stationary relative to said patient's body wall, such that the distance between said end effector and said moving portion remains substantially fixed. 3. A method for conducting robotic surgery on a patent, comprising: positioning a surgical tool in the vicinity of a portion of a beating heart, said toil connected to a distal portion of an articulated robotic arm; tracking motion of said portion of said beating heart, wherein said motion of said beating heart portion is tracked by contacting said heart directly with a portion of a motion detector, the portion of the motion detector supported by joint that move in relation to the beating heart motion; causing the surgical tool to tack the motion of said portion of said beating heart, such that said tool is substantially stationary relative to the portion of the beating heart; manipulating a remote master control to move the surgical tool relative to said heart portion; and manipulating heart tissue. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said surgical tool is positioned by passing said surgical tool through an aperture in a body wall of said patient, such that said surgery is minimally invasive. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said heart tissue comprises vasculature connected to the heart. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said heart tissue comprises a coronary artery. 7. The method of claim 3, further comprising: detecting an image of at least said portion of said beating heart; and transmitting said image to a remote display device. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: manipulating the image so that an observer observing the display device perceives the heart portion to be substantially stationary. 9. The method of claim 3, further comprising: causing an image detector to track the motion of said portion of said beating heart such that said detector is substantially stationary relative to the portion of the beating heart; detecting an image of at least said portion of said beating heart; and transmitting said image to a remote display device, such that an observer observing the display device perceives the heart portion to be substantially stationary. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said image detector comprises an endoscope. 11. A method for performing robotic surgery on moving tissue at a surgical site in a patient's body, comprising, providing a surgical instrument, said instrument coupled to the distal portion of an articulate arm; positioning a distal end of said instrument at the surgical site in the vicinity of a portion of said moving tissue; tracking the motion of said portion of said moving tissue by directly contacting said portion with a portion of a motion sensor, the portion of the motion sensor supported by joints that move in relation to the beating heart motion; and causing said surgical instrument to track the motion of said portion of said moving tissue, such that said instrument is substantially stationary relative to the portion of the moving tissue. 12. The method of claim 11, said instrument comprising a surgical end effector, said method further comprising: manipulating a remote master control to move the surgical tool relative to said heart portion; and causing said tissue to be manipulated with said end effector. 13. The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein the tracking step includes tracking the motion of said portion of said moving tissue by directly contacting said portion with a contacting surface of said motion sensor, wherein said motion sensor further comprises an articulated linkage, and a plurality of optical encoders. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the tracking step includes tracking the motion of said portion of said moving tissue by directly contacting said portion with a horseshoe-shape of the contacting surface of said motion sensor. 15. The method of claim 11, said instrument having a distal wrist element coupled by a wrist joint to an elongate shaft, said wrist element movably coupled to an end effector, wherein said causing said instrument to track movement comprises causing a portion of said instrument distal of said wrist joint to tack motion. 16. The method of claim 15, said elongate shaft of said instrument comprising a longitudinal axis, and wherein said wrist element comprises at least two wrist segments, wherein said causing the portion of said instrument distal of said wrist joint to track motion comprises causing at least one of said wrist segments to translate along a segment axis substantially parallel to said longitudinal axis without moving said instrument proximal of said wrist joint along said longitudinal axis. 17. The method of claim 11, further comprising capturing an image comprising said portion of said moving tissue, and displaying said image to an operator performing the surgical procedure. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said image is captured and displayed in such a manner that the operator is provided with the impression that the moving portion of tissue is substantially stationary. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said image capture is performed by having an image capture device substantially track movement of said portion of said moving tissue, such that said captured image appears to be substantially stationary. 