A fugitive pattern of an article to be investment cast wherein the pattern includes a plurality of locator embossments disposed in an array to provide a datum reference system by which the pattern can be held and positioned by a manipulator, such as for example a gripper device to a computer controlled robotic device, for assembly with another component of the pattern assembly. The datum embossments are located on a portion of the pattern that will be removed from the final metallic casting made to replicate the pattern. The casting includes integral cast datum embossments thereon by which the casting can be held and positioned.
Claims I claim: 1. A fugitive pattern for use in investment casting comprising a plurality of locators formed as part of the pattern and by which the pattern can be held and positioned by a manipulator. 2. The pattern of claim 1 wherein said pattern includes an attaching surface and said locators are disposed in an array that defines a plane parallel with said attaching surface. 3. The pattern of claim 2 wherein said locators are disposed in a triangular array. 4. The pattern of claim 1 wherein said locators are located on a gating region of said pattern. 5. The pattern of claim 4 wherein said gating region includes an attaching surface, first and second side surfaces that extend perpendicular to said attaching surface, and a third surface extending between said first and second side surfaces, said first side surface having a first locator embossment, said second side surface having a second locator embossment, said first embossment and second embossment defining a first axis therebetween and said third surface having a third locator embossment, said third locator embossment defining an axis between said first locator and said second locator and perpendicular to said first axis. 6. The pattern of claim 4 which has an airfoil shaped region, a root region and a tip region, said gating region being connected to one of said root region and said tip region. 7. The pattern of claim 1 wherein each said locator terminates in a partial spherical end surface. 8. The pattern of claim 7 wherein each said locator includes a cylindrical surface connected to said partial spherical surface. 9. The pattern of claim 1 which is made of material selected from thermally degradable wax and a polymer. 10. The pattern of claim 1 wherein the locators are injection molded as part of the pattern. 11. A fugitive pattern for use in investment casting, said pattern having an attaching surface and having a plurality of locators disposed in an array on said attaching surface by which locators the pattern can be held and positioned by a manipulator, said array defining a plane parallel with said attaching surface. 12. The pattern of claim 11 wherein said locators are disposed in a triangular array. 