A multi-slide assembly includes various components that alone or in combination facilitate testing of test samples with minimal manipulation of assay components. Moreover, the various device components permit centrifugation, culturing and analysis of each test sample to be performed in the same assembly. A frame retains a plurality of reaction vessel assemblies between a pair of opposing channels that are configured to slidably receive the opposing ends of each reaction vessel assembly. A strip cap seals the openings in each reaction vessel using cap members having sealing rings circumscribing the external walls thereof to form compression seals with internal walls of the reaction vessels. Furthermore, in a method of making a multi-well slide assembly, an ultrasonic welding process removably bonds a plurality of wells to a slide plate to provide an adequate seal therebetween during centrifugation, yet still enable separation thereof by an operator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a common operation on a plurality of test samples, each test sample housed in one of a plurality of reaction vessels, and each reaction vessel of the type including opposing ends, the method comprising: (a) placing the plurality of reaction vessels in a frame, the frame including a pair of opposing channels including first and second ends and slidably receiving the opposing ends of each reaction vessel, and first and second retaining mechanisms respectively disposed proximate the first and second ends of the pair of opposing channels and retaining each reaction vessel within the pair of opposing channels; and (b) performing the common operation on the plurality of test samples while the plurality of reaction vessels are retained in the frame. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the common operation is selected from the group consisting of centrifugation, transportation, incubation, culturing, inoculation, analysis, and combinations thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the frame has a footprint that is substantially similar to that of a microwell plate or multi-well cell culture dish, and has a height that is no greater than that of a microwell plate, and wherein performing the common operation is performed using an apparatus configured for use with a microwell plate. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the apparatus is selected from the group consisting of a washer, a dispenser, a robot, a pipetter, a colorimetric reader, a fluorometer, a microscope stage, a centrifuge, a spectrophotometer, a luminometer, an optical viewing device, a liquid handling system, a coating system, and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the opposing ends of each reaction vessel are defined on a plate, wherein the frame includes a lower support member coupled to and extending between the pair of opposing channels, the lower support member configured to support each reaction vessel in a direction generally perpendicular to the plate thereof, wherein the lower support member defines at least one access aperture through which is visible at least one of the plurality of reaction vessels, and wherein performing the common operation includes analyzing the test samples through the access aperture with an optical viewing device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein each reaction vessel includes a multi-well slide including a plurality of wells defined on a slide plate, and wherein the frame is configured to retain four multi-well slides of the type including four wells on each slide. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the plurality of reaction vessels from the frame, and thereafter discarding the frame. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the plurality of reaction vessels from the frame, and thereafter reusing the frame to perform a common operation on a second plurality of reaction vessels. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein a first reaction vessel among the plurality of reaction vessels includes a plurality of wells removably coupled to a slide plate, wherein performing the common operation includes inoculating and centrifuging the plurality of test samples, and wherein the plurality of wells in the first reaction vessel are configured to be separated from the slide plate for subsequent test sample analysis. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein each well comprises a sidewall member that is ultrasonically welded to the slide plate and that is configured to be separated from the slide plate by applying a separation force to the sidewall member using a levered opener to break the ultrasonic weld, and wherein performing the common operation includes performing the common operation while the sidewall member of each well is secured to the slide plate via the ultrasonic weld. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising sealing the plurality of wells with a plurality of cap members formed on a strip cap, with each cap member on the strip cap corresponding to a well from the plurality of wells. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein each cap member in the strip cap includes at least one sealing ring circumscribing an outer wall of the cap member and configured to form a seal against an internal wall of the corresponding well. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein each cap member in the strip cap includes a second sealing ring circumscribing the outer wall of the cap member spaced from and parallel to the first sealing ring, the first and second sealing rings configured to place the corresponding well in fluid communication with the atmosphere via a path including the space between the first and second sealing rings during at least a portion of the removal of the cap member from the corresponding well to reduce aerosol effects. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the first reaction vessel and strip cap are initially secured together to form a pre-manufactured assembly including at least one cell culture housed therein, wherein inoculating the plurality of test samples includes removing the strip cap from the pre-manufactured assembly prior to centrifuging the plurality of test samples. 15. The method of claim 5, wherein the first retaining mechanism comprises a stop member and the second retaining mechanism comprises a detent. 16. A method of performing common operations on first and second pluralities of test samples, each test sample in the first plurality of test samples housed in one of a first plurality of reaction vessels, each teat sample in the second plurality of test samples housed in one of a second plurality of reaction vessels, and each reaction vessel in the first and second pluralities of reaction vessels of the type including opposing ends, the method comprising: (a) placing the first plurality of reaction vessels in a frame, the frame including a pair of opposing channels including first and second ends and slidably receiving the opposing ends of each reaction vessel in the first plurality of reaction vessels, and first and second retaining mechanisms respectively disposed proximate the first and second ends of the pair of opposing channels and retaining each reaction vessel in the first plurality of reaction vessels within the pair of opposing channels; (b) performing a first common operation on the first plurality of test samples while the first plurality of reaction vessels are retained in the frame; (c) removing the first plurality of reaction vessels from the frame after performing the first common operation; and (d) thereafter reusing the frame to perform a second common operation on the second plurality of test samples while the second plurality of reaction vessels are retained in the frame. 17. A method of processing a plurality of test samples, wherein each test sample is housed in one of a plurality of reaction vessels, and wherein each reaction vessel is of the type including opposing ends, the method comprising: (a) sliding the plurality of reaction vessels between a pair of opposing channels disposed in a frame such that the opposing channels of the frame slidably receive the opposing ends of each reaction vessel; (b) retaining the plurality of reaction vessels within frame using first and second retaining mechanisms respectively disposed in the frame proximate first and second ends of the pair of opposing channels; and (c) performing a common operation on the plurality of test samples while the plurality of reaction vessels are retained in the frame. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein a first reaction vessel among the plurality of reaction vessels includes a plurality of wells removably coupled to a slide plate, wherein the opposing ends of the first reaction vessel are defined on the slide plate, wherein performing the common operation includes inoculating and centrifuging the plurality of test samples, the method further comprising: (a) removing the first reaction vessel from the frame after performing the common operation; and (b) separating the plurality of wells in the first reaction vessel from the slide plate. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein each well comprises a sidewall member that is ultrasonically welded to the slide plate, wherein separating the plurality of wells from the slide plate includes applying a separation force to the sidewall member using a levered opener to break the ultrasonic weld. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising sealing the plurality of wells with a plurality of cap members fonned on a strip cap prior to performing the common operation. 