An experimental space comprising levels of factors is designed according to an incomplete block design and an experimental space comprising levels of factors is designed by random selection. Separate combinatorial high throughput screening experiments are effected on each experimental space to produce sets of results and best results are selected from the sets. A system for conducting an experiment includes a reactor for effecting a combinatorial high throughput screening method on an experimental space to produce results and a programmed controller that defines an experimental space comprising levels of factors according to an incomplete block design and defines an experimental space comprising levels of factors by random selection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for selecting a best case set of levels of a reaction, comprising; defining an experimental space comprising levels of factors according to an incomplete block design and defining an experimental space comprising levels of factors by random selection; separately effecting a combinatorial high throughput screening (CHTS) experiment on each experimental space to produce sets of results; and selecting common best results from the sets. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein an experimental space comprises levels of factors randomly defined from levels of the incomplete block design. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting best results from the sets that are common to both sets and defining another experimental space according to the common best results. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting best results from the sets that are common to both sets and defining another experimental space according to the common best results and effecting another CHTS experiment on the another experimental space to produce a best case set of levels of the reaction. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein results from each CHTS experiment are arranged into separate visual displays that permit identification of best results from each separate experiment. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the experimental space comprising levels of factors by random selection is defined by an incomplete block comprising randomly selected levels of factors. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the incomplete block is designated according to t-(.nu., .kappa., .lambda.) where t is the size of an interaction subset, .nu. is a total number of levels in a design, .kappa. is a block size and .lambda. is a number of times each t-size subset is contained in a set of blocks. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein t is about 3 to about 5, .nu. is about 8 to about 100, .kappa. is about 4 to about 10 and .lambda. is about 1 to about 5. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein t is about 3 to about 4, .nu. is about 10 to about 30, .kappa. is about 4 to about 8 and .lambda. is about 1 to about 3. 10.The method of claim 7, wherein t is about 3 to about 4, .nu. is about 14 to about 26, .kappa. is about 4 to about 6 and .lambda. is about 1 to about 2. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein t is 3, .nu. is 8, .kappa. is 4 and .lambda. is 1. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the CHTS experiment comprises steps of; preparing a plurality of reagent compositions according to at least one of the experimental spaces; formulating a combinatorial library of reactants from said plurality of reagent compositions; effecting parallel reaction of the library to produce products; and evaluating the products to select a lead from the library of reactants. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein conducting the CHTS experiment comprises providing a reactor plate comprising a substrate with an array of reaction cells containing at least one reactant according to at least one of the experimental spaces and reacting the reactant in parallel with other reactants. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the CHTS comprises effecting parallel chemical reactions of an array of reactants defined according to at least one of the experimental spaces. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the CHTS comprises effecting parallel chemical reactions on a micro scale on reactants defined according to at least one of the experimental spaces. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the CHTS comprises an iteration of steps of simultaneously reacting a multiplicity of tagged reactants and identifying a multiplicity of tagged products of the reaction and evaluating the identified products after completion of a single or repeated iteration. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the experimental space factors comprise reactants, catalysts and conditions and the CHTS comprises (A)(a) reacting a reactant selected according to at least one of the experimental spaces under a selected set of catalysts or reaction conditions; and (b) evaluating a set of results of the reacting step; and (B) reiterating step (A) wherein a selected experimental space selected for a step (a) is chosen as a result of an evaluating step (b) of a preceding iteration of step (A). 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the factors include a catalyst system comprising a Group VIII B metal. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the factors include a catalyst system comprising palladium. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the factors include a catalyst system comprising a halide composition. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the factors include an inorganic co-catalyst. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the factors include a catalyst system includes a combination of inorganic co-catalysts. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the factors comprise a reactant or catalyst at least partially embodied in a liquid and effecting the CHTS method comprises contacting the reactant or catalyst with an additional reactant at least partially embodied in a gas, wherein the liquid forms a film having a thickness sufficient to allow a reaction rate that is essentially independent of a mass transfer rate of additional reactant into the liquid to synthesize products that comprise the results. 24. A combinatorial high through put screening (CHTS) method comprising: (1) selecting factors for an experimental space; (2) selecting a degree of interaction (t) of the factors; (3) selecting a degree of replication (.lambda.); (4) selecting a block size (.kappa.); (5) generating an experimental incomplete block design according to t, .lambda. and .kappa.; (6) conducting a CHTS method according to the design; (7) randomly permuting levels of the factors in the design; (8) conducting a second CHTS method according to the permuted levels design; and (9) identifying common levels from the experiments that represent best results. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the common levels are identified by arranging the results of the two experiments in a visual aid. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the common levels are identified by arranging the results of the two CHTS methods as two converging vectors. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the common levels are identified by arranging the results of the two CHTS methods as an array that displays common best results in a designated array section. 28. A system for conducting an experiment, comprising; a reactor for effecting a combinatorial high through put screening (CHTS) method on an experimental space to produce results; and a programmed controller for the reactor that defines an experimental space comprising levels of factors according to an incomplete block design and defines an experimental space comprising levels of factors by random selection. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the randomly defined experimental space comprises levels of factors randomly defined from levels of the incomplete block design. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the controller selects best common results from sets of results from CHTS methods effected in the reactor and defines another experimental space according to the common best results. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein the controller is a computer, processor or microprocessor. 32. The system of claim 28, further comprising a dispensing assembly to charge factor levels of reactants or catalysts representing the catalyzed chemical experimental space to wells of an array plate for charging to the reactor. 33. The system of claim 28, wherein the dispensing assembly is controlled by the controller to charge factor levels of reactants or catalysts according to the controller defined space. 34. The system of claim 28, further comprising a detector to detect results of the CHTS method effected in the reactor. 