A process for modifying the surface of a substrate containing a polymeric material by contacting the surface with the modifying agent to bond the modifying agent to the surface the process comprising providing a solution of the modifying agent in a solvent and subjecting the solution of the modifying agent to a zone of elevated temperature to vaporize the solvent and provide diffuse contact between the modifying agent and the surface of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for modifying the surface of a substrate containing a polymeric material by contacting the surface with a modifying agent to bond the modifying agent to the surface, the process comprising: providing a modifying agent composition comprising a modifying agent; providing surface modification means comprising a burner for forming a zone of elevated temperature adjacent to a part of the surface of the substrate and an applicator for applying the modifying agent composition into the zone of elevated temperature; applying the modifying agent composition into the zone of elevated temperature to vaporise the modifying agent and provide diffuse contact between the modifying agent and the part of the surface of the substrate; and providing relative movement of the surface modification means with respect to the surface of the substrate and wherein the surface modifying agent comprises a polyamine containing at least four amine groups including two amine groups selected from primary and secondary amine groups. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the modifying agent composition is heated to a temperature sufficient to produce vaporization of the composition and less than the decomposition temperature of the modifying agent. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein the heating zone provides a temperature of at least 120.degree. C. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein the heating zone is provided by a portion of the burner selected from the group consisting of a burner flame, a burner combustion chamber, a burner combustion product stream, and combinations thereof. 5. A process according to claim 4 wherein the products of combustion of the burner are directed onto the surface of the substrate. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein the surface modification means provides a plurality of flame zones. 7. A process according to claim 4 wherein the burner comprises a combustion chamber which provides pulsed combustion. 8. A process according to claim 4 wherein the burner comprises a combustion chamber and said burner further comprises an inlet for an oxidizing atmosphere such as air, a combustible gas inlet for feeding combustible gas under pressure, ignition means and valve means for controlling the flow of oxidizing atmosphere and combustible gas into the chamber. 9. A process according to claim 1 wherein the surface of the substrate is oxidized to provide functional groups and wherein the modifying agent is reactive with said functional groups. 10. A process according to claim 9 further comprising an additional step in which the substrate is oxidized by oxidation means selected from the group consisting of corona discharge, plasma treatment, chemical oxidation, and UV treatment prior to applying the modifying agent composition. 11. A process according to claim 1 further comprising treating the substrate with a physical field selected from the group consisting of an ultrasonic field, a microwave field, a radio-frequency field, beat in the range of from 50 to 150.degree. C. and combinations of two or more thereof. 12. A process according to claim 1 wherein the polyamine is selected from the group consisting of polyamine polymers of molecular weight in the range of from 200 to 2000000 and non-polymeric ainines containing from 6 to 30 carbon atoms. 13. A process according to claim 1 wherein the polyamine is a polyethylenimine, polyvinylamine or polyallylamine of molecular weight of from 400 to 750000. 14. A process according to claim 1 wherein the substrate is a cellulosic material derived from perennial plants. 15. A process according to claim 14 wherein the cellulosic material is selected from the group consisting of hardwood, softwood, cotton, jute, flax, hemp, ramie, sisal, coir, viscose, softwood kraft and composites containing cellulose fibre. 16. A process according to claim 1 wherein the modifying agent composition further comprises a solvent and the concentration of the surface modifying agent in the solvent is in the range of from 0.00001 to 50% by weight. 17. A process according to claim 16 wherein the concentration of the modifying agent is in the range of from 0.01 to 5% by weight. 18. A process according to claim 1 wherein the modifying agent composition is a solution in a solvent selected from the group consisting of aqueous solvents, alcohols and mixtures thereof. 19. A process according claim 1 wherein the modifying agent composition further comprises a cross-linking agent reactive with the polyamine to provide a cross-linked network grafted to the surface of the substrate. 20. A process according to claim 19 wherein the crosslinking agent has at least two functional groups including a first functional group reactive with an amino functional group of the polyamine and a second functional group reactive with a functional group present in the polyamine or crosslinking agent. 21. A process according to claim 19 wherein the crosslinking agent is selected from the group consisting of organo-functional silanes having an organic functional group for reaction with an amine and a silane group adapted to condense with other silane groups in the presence of water to form Si--O--Si bonds; methylol crosslinkers; crosslinkers containing at least two oxirane groups; compounds containing at least one oxirane group and at least one acrylate or methacrylate group; compounds containing at least two groups independently selected from acrylate, methacrylate, methacrylamide and acrylamide; compounds containing one or more halogen groups and one or more groups selected from the group consisting of oxirane, methacrylate, acrylate, aldehyde, ketone, isocyanate and anhydride; compounds containing halohydrin and another functional group selected from the group consisting of oxirane, acrylate and methacrylate; and compounds containing at least two anhydride groups. 22. A process according to 19 wherein the crosslinking agent is a silane of formula: 23. A process according to claim 22 wherein the silane is of formula wherein R.sup.4 is a group of formula C.sub.n H.sub.2n wherein n is from 0 to 12 or a benzyl group of formula CH.sub.2 C.sub.6 H.sub.4 ; Y is selected from the group consisting of methacryloxy, acryloxy, acetoxy, halogen, carbomethoxy, 4-chlorosulfonylphenyl, isocyanate, chloroformate, carbochloride, 3,4-epoxycyclohexyl and ureido; R.sup.2 is selected from the group consisting of chloro, C.sub.1 to C.sub.12 alkoxy and carboxylate of formula O.sub.2 CC.sub.n H.sub.2n+1 wherein n is an integer from 1 to 11; and Y is selected from the group consisting of chloro, C.sub.1 to C.sub.12 alkoxy, phenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, C.sub.1 to C.sub.12 alkyl, and carboxylate of formula O.sub.2 CC.sub.n H.sub.2n-1 wherein n is an integer from 1 to 11. 24. A process according to claim 19 wherein the crosslinking agent is selected from the group consisting of: aldol condensation products selected from the group consisting of glutaraldehyde, methyl pyruvate, ethylpyruvate, pyruvic aldehyde, methyl levunate, ethyl levunate and mixtures of at least one of formaldehyde, glyoxal and glutaraldehyde with one or more ketone of formula C.sub.n H.sub.2n+1 CO C.sub.m H.sub.2m+1 wherein n and m are independently selected from 0 to 6; methylol crosslinkers provided by reaction of two or more molar equivalents of formaldehyde with at least one compound selected from the group consisting of phenol or substituted phenol, melamine, urea, benzoguanamine and glucouril; oxiranes selected from the group consisting of bisphenol A epoxy resins; di and poly glycidyl ethers of diols and polyols; glycidyl esters of polycarboxylic acids; di or poly glycidyl aliphatic or aromatic amines; epoxy compounds obtained from peroxidation of unsaturated compounds; homo and copolymers of glycidyl methacrylate; homo and copolymers of glycidyl acrylate; epoxy acrylate compounds and epoxy methacrylate compounds; polyunsaturated compounds selected from the group consisting of 2-(acryloxy)ethermethacrylate; ethoxylated bisphenol A di(meth)acrylate; polyethylene glycol di(meth)acrylate; 1,3-butylene glycol di(meth)acrylate; propoxylated neopentyl glycol di(meth)acrylate; alkoxylated aliphatic di(meth)acrylate ester; tris(2-hydroxylethyl)isocyanurate tri(meth)acrylate; pentaerythritol tri(meth)acrylate; glycerol propoxylate tri(meth)acrylate; pentaerythritol tetra(meth)acrylate; dipentaerythritol penta(meth)acrylate; di or in (meth)acrylate methacrylate ester; di or tri (meth)acrylate acrylate ester; aliphatic urethane (meth)acrylate and aromatic urethane (meth)acrylate; halogen containing compounds selected from the group consisting of epichlorohydrin, epibromohydrin, epiiodohydrin; 2-bromoethyl acrylate; 3-bromopropyl acrylate; 4-bromobutyl acrylate; 6-bromohexyl acrylate; 7-bromoheptyl acrylate; 8-bromooctyl acrylate; 9-bromononyl acrylate; 11-bromoundecyl acrylate; 12-bromododecyl acrylate; 2-chloroethyl acrylate; 2-(2-chloroethoxy) ethyl acrylate; 2-[2-(2-chloroethoxy)ethoxy]ethyl acrylate; 4-chlorobutyl acrylate; 2-chlorocyclohexyl acrylate; 10-chlorodecyl acrylate; 6-chlorohexyl acrylate; 3-chloro-2,2-dimethylpropyl acrylate; 1-chloro-2methyl-2-propyl acrylate; 8-chlorooctyl acrylate; 3-chloropropyl acrylate; 2-bromoethyl isocyanate; 2-chloroethyl isocyanate; 4-chlorobutyl isocyanate and trichloroacetyl isocyanate; compounds containing at least one halohydrin group and at least one group selected from the group consisting of oxirane, acrylate, methacrylate and aldehyde linked to the halohydrin group by a hydrocarbon linking group; and compounds containing two or more anhydride groups selected from the group consisting of pyrromellitic dianhydride, 1,4,5,8-naphthalenetetracarboxylic dianhydride, 3,4,9,10-perylenetetracarboxylic dianhydride and polymers containing maleic anhydride. 25. A process according to claim 19 herein the weight ratio of polyamine to crosslinking agent is in the range of from 1:100 to 100:1. 26. A process according to claim 19 wherein the weight ratio of polyamine to crosslinking agent is in the range of from 1:10 to 10:1. 27. A process according to claim 19, wherein at least one of the modifying agent and crosslinking agent includes a functional group selected from the group consisting of electroconductive groups, UV absorbing groups, 1R, absorbing groups, charge containing groups and ion exchange groups. 28. A process according to claim 1 wherein the process further includes the step substrate a further material selected from the group consisting of an adhesive, functional molecules, coatings and inks. 29. A process according to claim 1 wherein the modifying agent is delivered with a carrier comprising a solvent or a gas and sprayed into the zone of elevated temperature. 30. A process according to claim 29 wherein the modifying agent and the carrier solvent or gas are preheated prior to the spray delivery into the zone of elevated temperature. 31. A process according to claim 9 wherein the oxidation is provided by treating the surface with a flame burner. 32. A process according to claim 1 wherein the substrate is a polymer based material. 33. A process according to claim 32 wherein the substrate is a polyolefin polymer. 34. A method according to claim 29 wherein the carrier is a gas selected from the group consisting of air, nitrogen, helium, argon and the mixtures thereof. 