A machine and method for loading surgical needles having attached sutures into a package. The machine has a rotating disk mounted to a frame. The disk has circumferential grooves for receiving a suture. The machine has a block slidably mounted to the machine for receiving a needle and transporting it to a motion device. The motion device moves the needle to a package on a packaging machine. Rotation of the package by the packaging machine causes the suture to move out of the grooves and into the package.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of moving a suture and surgical needle assembly to a package, comprising: providing a surgical needle and suture assembly, comprising a surgical suture having a first end and second end, and a surgical needle mounted to an end of the suture, said suture having a length; providing a loading apparatus for loading the surgical needle into a package, the apparatus comprising: a frame having a top surface; a block slidably mounted to the top surface, said block having a pair of jaws for receiving a surgical needle mounted thereto, wherein said jaws are moveable with respect to each other; a storage disk rotatably mounted to the frame, said disk having a top, a bottom and a side; first and second circumferential grooves contained in the side of the disk for receiving at least part of a length of a suture; a passage way in said side of said disk connecting the grooves; a motion device mounted to the top surface; a pair of placement jaws mounted to the motion device for gripping a surgical needle; a displacement shaft mounted to the frame, such that the shaft is displaceable between a first position and a section position; and, a displacement member mounted to a displacement shaft for engaging a suture to move the suture between the first groove and the second groove; inserting the surgical needle in the jaws of the block and engaging the needle with the jaws; moving the block and engaged needle to the motion device; rotating the storage disk to move substantially the entire length of suture into the circumferential grooves; employing the motion device to remove the needle from the jaws and move the needle into a suture package mounted to a suture winding machine; and, rotating the package on the winding machine to move the suture from the grooves and into the package. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the apparatus additionally comprises a magnetic member mounted in or to the block. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the apparatus additionally comprises a friction pad moveably mounted to the top of the machine for frictionally engaging a suture. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the apparatus additionally comprises: a cavity in the top of the disk, adjacent to the periphery, said cavity having a bottom; and, a pin member extending up from the bottom surface of the cavity for engaging suture. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the apparatus additionally comprises a rail mounted to the top surface, wherein the block is slidably mounted to the rail. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the displacement member comprises a roller that is rotatably mounted to the displacement shaft. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the motion device comprises a robotic controller. 8. An apparatus for loading surgical needles with attached surgical sutures into a package, comprising: a frame having a top surface: a block slidably mounted to the top surface, said block having a pair of jaws for receiving a surgical needle mounted thereto, wherein said jaws are moveable with respect to each other; a storage disk rotatably mounted to the frame, said disk having a top, a bottom and a side; first and second circumferential grooves contained in the side of the disk for receiving at least part of a length of a suture; a passage way in said side of said disk connecting the grooves; a motion device mounted to the top surface; a pair of placement jaws mounted to the motion device for gripping a surgical needle; a displacement shaft mounted to the frame, such that the shaft is displaceable between a first position and a section position; and, a displacement member mounted to a displacement shaft for engaging a suture to move the suture between the first groove and the second groove. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, additionally comprising a magnetic member mounted in or to the block. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, additionally comprising a friction pad moveably mounted to the top of the machine for frictionally engaging a suture. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, additionally comprising: a cavity in the top of the disk, adjacent to the periphery, said cavity having a bottom; and, a pin member extending up from the bottom surface of the cavity for engaging suture. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 additionally comprising a rail mounted to the top surface, wherein the block is slidably mounted to the rail. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the displacement member comprises a roller that is rotatably mounted to the displacement shaft. 14. The apparatus of claim 8 the motion device comprises a robotic controller. 