A matrix mixing robot includes a plurality of precision pumps (such as precision syringe pumps), a distributor and a processor system. Each pump, under the control of the processor system, draws an associated stock solution from a stock solution source, and pumps the drawn stock solution out through an outlet. The distributor, also under the control of the processor system, directs a stock solution from a particular pump outlet to a selected solution receptacle. A multi-port distribution valve may be associated with each precision pump. Each valve, under control of the processor system, can connect its associated pump to one the pump's inlets or outlets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for mixing and delivering solutions, comprising: a plurality of precision pumps, each pump drawing an associated stock solution from a solution source, and pumping the drawn solution out through an outlet; a distributor which directs a solution from a particular pump outlet to a selected one of a plurality of solution holders wherein said solution holders are not physically connected to the outlet of any one of the precision pumps; and a processor system which controls the precision pumps and the distributor. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a multi-port distribution valve associated with each precision pump, each valve for connecting its associated pump to one of a plurality of associated inlets and outlets, the processor system controlling each valve. 3. The system of claim 2, individual inlets of a particular pump being connected to different solutions, and each outlet of said pump being uniquely associated with one of said inlets, such that a particular solution always enters through one of said inlets and always exits through the associated outlet. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein each pump has an inlet connected to a water/wash source. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein each pump has an outlet for disposing of waste. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein each pump comprises a mixing chamber that receives components of a mixture. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein contents of the mixing chamber are pumped to a dispensing pin. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the distributor comprises: a manifold which holds an array of dispensing pins, the pins connected to the pump outlets; and positioning means for aligning a particular pin and a particular solution holder. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the dispensing pins are made of stainless steel. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the positioning means comprises: a gantry on which the manifold is supported, the processor system controlling movement of the gantry. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor system controls movement of the gantry in three dimensions. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein the manifold further holds an array of aspiration pins connected to the pump inlets, the positioning means positioning particular aspiration pins over particular solution holders and inserting said aspiration pins into said solution holders for aspiration. 13. The system of claim 12, a single valve port serving as both inlet port and outlet port, and the connected pin being both a dispensing pin and an aspiration pin. 14. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a plurality of chromatography cartridges connected between pump outlets and dispensing pins, the processor system controlling: aspiration of a solution from a solution holder, pumping of the aspirated solution over the chromatography cartridges, washing of the cartridges with elution buffers, and collection, in recipient containers, of liquids flowing through the cartridges. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein a solution holder is one of a test tube, and a crystallization plate well. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the precision pumps are precision syringe pumps. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor system controls according to predefined recipes. 18. The system of claim 17, further comprising: means for allowing a user to view and edit a recipe. 19. The system of claim 1, the precision pumps being operated independently of each other. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor system follows predetermined protocols to perform any of: producing crystallization screening solutions from stock solutions; purifying proteins; and setting up crystallization plates. 21. A method for mixing and delivering solutions, comprising: controlling, from a processor system, a plurality of precision pumps, each pump drawing an associated solution from a solution source, and pumping the drawn solution out through an outlet; controlling, from the processor system, a distributor which directs a solution from a particular pump outlet to a selected one of a plurality of solution holders wherein the particular pump outlet is not physically connected to the selected one of the plurality of solution holders. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: controlling, from the processor system, a multi-port distribution valve associated with each precision pump, each valve for connecting its associated pump to one of a plurality of associated inlets and outlets. 23. The method of claim 22, individual inlets of a particular pump being connected to different solutions, and each outlet of said pump being uniquely associated with one of said inlets, such that a particular solution always enters through one of said inlets and always exits through the associated outlet. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein each pump has an inlet connected to a water/wash source. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein each pump has an outlet for disposing of waste. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein each pump comprises a mixing chamber that receives components of a mixture. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein contents of the mixing chamber are pumped to a dispensing pin. 28. The method of claim 21, the distributor comprising a manifold for holding an array of dispensing pins, the pins connected to the pump outlet ports, wherein controlling the distributor comprises: controlling, from the processor system, position of the manifold to align a particular pin and a particular receiving container. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the dispensing pins are made of stainless steel. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein controlling position further comprises: controlling, from the processor system, a gantry on which the manifold is supported. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the processor system controls movement of the gantry in three dimensions. 32. The method of claim 28, wherein the manifold further holds an array of aspiration pins connected to the pump inlets, wherein controlling the position of the manifold further comprises: positioning particular aspiration pins over particular solution holders; and inserting said aspiration pins into said solution holders for aspiration. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein a plurality of chromatography cartridges are connected between pump outlets and dispensing pins, further comprising, under control of the processor system: aspirating a solution from a solution holder; pumping of the aspirated solution over the chromatography cartridges; washing of the cartridges with elution buffers; and collecting, in recipient containers, liquids flowing through the cartridges. 34. (Original) The method of claim 21, wherein a solution holder is one of a test tube, and a crystallization plate well. 35. The method of claim 21, wherein the precision pumps are precision syringe pumps. 36. The method of claim 21, wherein the processor system controls according to predefined recipes. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising: providing means for a user to view and edit a recipe. 38. The method of claim 21, the precision pumps being operated independently of each other. 39. The method of claim 21, wherein the processor system follows predetermined protocols to perform any of: producing crystallization screening solutions from stock solutions; purifying proteins; and setting up crystallization plates. 40. A system for mixing and delivering solutions, comprising: means for controlling a plurality of precision pumps independently, each pump drawing an associated stock solution from a stock solution source, and pumping the drawn stock solution out through an outlet; and means for controlling a distributor which directs a stock solution from a particular pump outlet to a selected one of a plurality of solution holders, wherein said solution holder is not physically connected to the outlet of the particular pump. 41. A system for mixing and delivering solutions, comprising: pump means for drawing plural stock solutions from plural stock solution sources, and for pumping drawn stock solutions out; distributor means for directing the stock solutions into solution holders, wherein the solution holders are not physically connected to the pump means; and control means for controlling said pump means and said distributor means. 42. The system of claim 41, further comprising: multi-port valve means for directing flow into and out of said pump means, said control means controlling said multi-port valve means. 43. A system for mixing and delivering solutions, comprising: a plurality of precision pumps, each pump drawing an associated stock solution from a solution source, and pumping the drawn solution out through an outlet, wherein a chromatography cartridge is connected to the pump outlet so that the drawn solution passes from the pump outlet through the chromatography cartridge; a distributor which directs a solution from a particular precision pump to a selected one a plurality of solution holders; and a processor system which controls the precision pumps and the distributor. 