The present invention provides compositions and methods to facilitate the identification of compounds that are capable of interacting with a biological macromolecule of interest. In one aspect, a composition is provided that comprises an array of one or more types of chemical compounds attached to a solid support, wherein the density of the array of compounds is at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2. In particularly preferred embodiments, these compounds are attached to the solid support through a covalent interaction. In general, these inventive arrays are generated by: (1) providing a solid support, wherein said solid support is functionalized with a selected chemical moiety capable of interacting with a desired chemical compound to form an attachment; (2) providing one or more solutions of one or more types of compounds to be attached to the solid support; and (3) delivering said one or more types of compounds to the solid support, whereby an array is formed and the array of compounds has a density of at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2. In another aspect, the present invention provides methods for utilizing these arrays to identify small molecule partners for biological macromolecules of interest comprising: (1) providing an array of compounds, wherein the array has a density of at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2 ; (2) contacting the array with one of more types of biological macromolecules of interest; and (3) determining the interaction of specific small molecule-biological macromolecule partners.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An array comprising a plurality of more than one type of non-oligomeric compounds attached to a solid support, wherein the density of said array of compounds is at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2 ; and wherein the compounds are attached to the solid support as depicted: ##STR10## wherein X is O, S, or NH; m is an integer between 0 and 5; n is an integer between 0 and 5; and R is the compound attached to the solid support. 2. The array of claim 1, wherein said array of chemical compounds comprises an array of non-peptidic and non-oligomeric chemical compounds. 3. The array of claim 1, wherein each of said chemical compounds in said array is attached to the solid support through a covalent interaction. 4. The array of claim 1, wherein said covalent interaction is characterized in that the linkage is robust enough so that the compounds are (1) not inadvertently cleaved during subsequent manipulation steps and (2) inert so that the functionalities employed do not interfere with subsequent manipulation steps. 5. The array of claim 1, wherein each of said chemical compounds in said array is attached to the solid support through a linkage generated by a Michael addition. 6. The composition of claim 1, wherein the solid support is glass. 7. The array of claim 1, wherein said array of chemical compounds comprises an array of small molecules. 8. The array of claim 1, wherein the density of said array of compounds is at least 5000 spots per cm.sup.2. 9. The array of claim 1, wherein the density of said array of compounds is at least 10,000 spots per cm.sup.2. 