The invention provides a method and system for establishing a desired atmosphere for perishable or atmosphere-sensitive goods during their storage and/or transportation. A system in one embodiment includes a base cap for receiving goods; a covering which surrounds the goods on the base cap and forming a sealed enclosure around the goods; a valve extending outwardly from a surface of the base cap and a second valve extending outwardly from a surface of the covering.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for packaging goods, comprising: a base cap having a top surface for receiving said goods thereon; a covering surrounding and enclosing said goods between said base cap and said covering, thereby forming a sealed enclosure around said goods; and at least two valves coupled to said sealed enclosure allowing a desired gas to flow into an interior area of the sealed enclosure for establishing and for maintaining a desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure; wherein at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said base cap and wherein at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said covering. 2. The system as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a pallet, wherein said base cap is configured to be received on top of said pallet. 3. The system as set forth in claim 2, wherein said pallet includes at least one slat; and said base cap includes at least one tab extending downwardly from a bottom surface of the base cap, wherein the at least one tab is configured to be received within the at least one slat so as to align and secure the base cap to the pallet. 4. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said at least two valves comprise a first valve and a second valve and the system further comprises: a tank containing a gas therein; a hose having a first end coupled to said first valve; an automated valve coupled to said tank, wherein a second end of said hose is coupled to the automated valve; at least one sensor coupled to said second valve, wherein the sensor receives an atmosphere sample from within said sealed enclosure via the second valve and measures at least one parameter associated with said atmosphere; and a controller coupled to said at least one sensor and said automated valve, wherein the controller receives data from said sensor and automatically opens or closes said automated valve in response to the data so as to either start or stop said gas from flowing into said sealed enclosure. 5. The system as set forth in claim 4, wherein said sensor periodically monitors said atmosphere within said sealed enclosure and periodically sends data to said controller, wherein said controller automatically opens or closes said automated valve in response to said data periodically received from said sensor so as to establish and/or maintain said desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure. 6. The system as set forth in claim 4, further comprising: a computer, coupled to said controller, wherein said computer receives and stores data representative of a measured characteristic of said desired atmosphere from said controller and said computer transmits instructions to said controller to initiate a desired operation by the controller. 7. A system for transporting goods, comprising: a base cap having a top surface for receiving said goods thereon, and a bottom surface; a top cap having a top surface and a bottom surface, wherein the bottom surface of the top cap is configured to be positioned on top of said goods after the goods have been placed onto said top surface of the base cap; a wrapping surrounding the side surfaces of said goods so as to form an enclosure around the goods in conjunction with said base cap and said top cap; wherein said wrapping overlaps said base cap and said top cap so as to form a sealed enclosure around said goods; and at least two valves coupled to said sealed enclosure for allowing a desired gas to flow into an interior area of the sealed enclosure for establishing and for maintaining a desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure, wherein at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said base cap and at least one valve is attached to and extends outwardly from a surface of said wrapping overlapping said top cap. 8. The system as set forth in claim 7, wherein said at least two valves comprise a first valve and a second valve and the system further comprises: a tank containing a gas source therein; a hose having a first end coupled to said first valve; an automated valve coupled to said tank, wherein a second end of said hose is coupled to the automated valve; at least one sensor coupled to said second valve, wherein said at least one sensor receives an atmosphere sample from within said sealed enclosure via the second valve and measures at least one parameter associated with said atmosphere; and a controller coupled to said at least one sensor and said automated valve, wherein the controller receives data from said at least one sensor and automatically controls said automated valves in response to the data so as to either start or stop said gas from flowing into said sealed enclosure. 9. The system as set forth in claim 8, wherein said at least one sensor periodically monitors said atmosphere within said sealed enclosure and periodically sends data to said controller, wherein said controller automatically opens or closes said automated valve in response to said data periodically received from said at least one sensor so as to establish and/or maintain the desired atmosphere within said sealed enclosure. 10. The system as set forth in claim 8, further comprising: a computer, coupled to said controller, wherein said computer receives and stores data representative of a measured characteristic of said desired atmosphere from said controller and said computer transmits instructions to said controller to initiate a desired operation by the controller. 11. The system as set forth in claim 7, further comprising: a pallet, wherein said base cap is configured to be received on top of said pallet. 12. The system as set forth in claim 11, wherein said pallet includes at least one slat, and said base cap includes at least one tab extending downwardly from a bottom surface of the base cap, wherein the at least one tab is configured to be received within the at least one slat so as align and secure the base cap to the pallet. 