A substrate transport container having a carrier box including a container body and a door hermetically sealably covering an opening provided in the front of the container body. Partitions form a circulating flow path in the carrier box. The circulating flow path has a flow path in which air flows toward substrates and a flow path in which air flows toward a fan. A substrate carrying section is disposed in the flow path in which air flows toward the substrates to carry the substrates in such a way that the principal surfaces of the substrates are approximately parallel to the flow path in which air flows toward the substrates. A particle removing filter and a gaseous impurity trapping filter are placed on the upstream side of the substrate carrying section in the flow path in which air flows toward the substrates. A fan motor for driving the fan is incorporated in the carrier box to form an air current for circulating through the circulating flow path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for transporting substrates comprising: a substrate transport container having a container body with an opening and a wafer loading/unloading door adapted to sealably cover the opening; a substrate carrying section disposed in the transport container; a fan attached to the container and configured to form a circulating flow toward said substrates in the transport container; a combination of a particle removing filter and a gaseous impurity trapping filter disposed upstream of said substrate carrying section in the circulating flow; a first charging terminal disposed outside of the transport container; a door opener configured to open and close the wafer loading/unloading door, the door opener having a second charging terminal; and positioning members adapted to position the transport container relative to the door opener such that the first and second charging terminals are connectable when the substrate transport container is placed on the door opener. 2. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 1, wherein a battery is provided in the transport container, the battery configured to be automatically charged when the first and second charging terminals are connected. 3. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 1, further comprising: a battery disposed in the transport container and in electrical connection with the first charging terminal. 4. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 1, wherein the positioning members comprise a groove and a pin adapted to cooperate with one another, the groove disposed on one of the substrate container and the door opener, and the pin disposed on the other of the door opener and the substrate container. 5. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 1, wherein the positioning members comprise a groove disposed on the substrate container and a pin disposed on the door opener. 6. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 5, where the groove comprises a V-shaped groove and the pin comprises a coupling pin. 7. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 1, wherein the positioning members comprise a plurality of grooves and a plurality of pins, the grooves disposed on one of the substrate container and the door opener, and the pins disposed on the other of the door opener and the substrate container. 8. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 7, wherein the plurality of grooves comprises 3 grooves, and the plurality of pins comprises 3 pins. 9. The system for transporting substrates according to claim 8, wherein the grooves are disposed on the substrate container, and the pins are disposed on the door opener. 