An object engaging tool and method for using same for manipulating bottle shaped objects with a mechanical arm are described. A first and second contact surface of the object engaging tool engage the body of an object when positioned over the object while the object is resting upright. The position of the object engaging tool is changed generally downwardly so the weight of the object is transferred to the object engaging tool and is supported in cantilevered relation thereupon. The object is moved into position and placed on a resting surface whereupon the object engaging tool is disengaged when the weight of the object is transferred to the resting surface. The object engaging tool may further be positioned over the object when resting in a horizontal position and the object engaged and weight transferred to the object engaging tool by changing the position of the object engaging tool upwardly. Multiple object engaging tool may be coupled to a mechanical arm and multiple objects engaged and moved in a like manner.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An object engaging tool for manipulating an object having a body and a neck substantially smaller than the body for support and movement thereof through use of a mechanical arm, the object engaging tool comprising: a controllable coupler for coupling the object engaging tool to the mechanical arm; a first contact surface generally conforming to the cross section of the object neck; and a second contact surface generally conforming to the cross section of the object body; wherein the first and second contact surfaces are arranged in spaced relation and the object engaging tool is configured to: a) engage the object resting in an upright position, such that the first contact surface of the tool engages the neck of the object on a first side thereof and the second contact surface of the tool engages the body of the object on a second side thereof opposite the first side and offset from the first contact surface such that the second contact surface engages the body of the object at a point farther along a longitudinal axis associated with the object than the neck and on the opposite side thereof; and b) change position in a generally downward tilting manner so that the weight of the object is transferred to the object engaging tool, which weight is supported between the first contact surface and the second contact surface in a cantilevered relation, wherein the object neck is cammed against the first contact surface to securely support the object to facilitate movement thereof with the mechanical arm. 2. The object engaging tool of claim 1, wherein the object body and object neck are both generally cylindrical. 3. The object engaging tool of claim 1, further configured to: c) move the object to a desired position by applying a translating motion to the mechanical arm. 4. The object engaging tool of claim 1, further configured to: d) position the object in a desired location in proximity to a supporting surface; e) change position so that the weight of the object is transferred to the supporting surface; and f) disengage from the cantilevered relation with the object. 5. An object engaging tool for manipulating an object having a body and a neck having a diameter substantially the same as a diameter of the body for support and movement thereof through use of a mechanical arm, the object engaging tool comprising: a controllable coupler for coupling the object engaging tool to the mechanical arm; a first contact surface generally conforming to the cross section of the object neck; and a second contact surface generally conforming to the cross section of the object body; wherein the first and second contact surfaces are arranged in spaced relation and the object engaging tool is configured to: a) engage the object resting in an upright position, such that the first contact surface of the tool engages the neck of the object on a first side thereof and the second contact surface of the tool engages the body of the object on a second side thereof opposite the first side and offset from the first contact surface such that the second contact surface engages the body of the object at a point farther along a longitudinal axis associated with the object than the neck and on the opposite side thereof; and b) change position in a generally downward tilting manner so that the weight of the object is transferred to the object engaging tool, which weight is supported between the first contact surface and the second contact surface in a cantilevered relation, wherein the object neck is cammed against the first contact surface to securely support the object to facilitate movement thereof with the mechanical arm. 6. The object engaging tool of claim 5, wherein the object body and neck are both generally cylindrical. 7. An object engaging tool for manipulating an object having a body and a neck substantially smaller than the body for support and movement thereof through use of a mechanical arm, the object engaging tool comprising: a controllable coupler for coupling the object engaging tool to the mechanical arm; a first contact surface generally conforming to the cross section of the object neck; and a second contact surface generally conforming to the cross section of the object body; wherein the first and second contact surfaces are arranged in spaced relation and the object engaging tool is configured to: a) engage the object resting in a horizontal position on a supporting surface, such that the first contact surface of the tool engages the neck of the object on an upper side and the second contact surface of the tool engages the body of the object on a lower side opposite the upper side and offset from the first contact surface such that the second contact surface engages the body of the object at a point farther along a longitudinal axis of the object than the neck and on the opposite side thereof; and b) change position in a generally upwardly lifting motion so that the weight of the object is transferred from the supporting surface to the object engaging tool, such that the weight of the object is supported between the first contact surface and the second contact surface in a cantilevered relation, camming the object neck against the first contact surface to securely support the object to facilitate movement thereof. 8. The object engaging tool of claim 7, further configured to: c) move the object to a desired position by applying a translating motion to the mechanical arm. 9. The object engaging tool of claim 7, wherein the object body and neck are both generally cylindrical. 10. The object engaging tool of claim 7, further configured to: d) position the object in a desired location in proximity to the supporting surface; e) change the position of the object engaging tool so that the weight of the object is transferred to the supporting surface; and f) disengage the object engaging tool from the cantilevered relation with the object. 