A stretchable interconnect for electrically connecting electronic devices comprises a photolithographically patterned conductor extending between two of said devices for electrically coupling a contact of one device to a contact of another device. The stretchable interconnect preferably comprises a coiled conductor. The coiled conductor is formed of a metal or alloy having a stress gradient extending through a thickness of said conductor. A sensor array employs the stretchable interconnects to connect contacts of one electronic device to another electronic device. The sensor array can be employed in a flexible or stretchable sensing skin of a robot as well as other applications. The stretchable interconnects can be formed by a photolithographic process on the same substrate which supports the electronic devices. The interconnects become stretchable when the supporting substrate is removed from the interconnect. Preferably coils which are formed are di-helic.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stretchable interconnect for electrically connecting electronic devices which are supported for movement relative to one another, comprising: a photolithographically patterned stretchable conductor extending between two of said devices for electrically coupling a contact of one device to a contact of another device, said conductor being comprised of a conductive material, wherein said interconnect comprises a coiled conductor which as patterned has a stress gradient extending through at least a portion of the thickness of said conductor, and wherein as photolithographically patterned and prior to coiling said interconnect comprises at least one "V" shaped section, which when unsupported forms said coil. 2. The stretchable interconnect as in claim 1, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of "V" shaped sections. 3. The stretchable interconnect as in claim 1, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of "V" shaped sections, which when unsupported forms said coil. 4. The stretchable interconnect as in claim 1, wherein said coiled conductor is di-helic having two winding directions. 5. A sensor array comprising at least two electronic devices which are supported for movement relative to one another and at least one stretchable interconnect for connecting said electronic devices, said interconnect comprising: a photolithographically patterned stretchable conductor extending between said devices for electrically coupling a contact of one device to a contact of another device, said conductor being formed of a conductive material, wherein said interconnect comprises a coiled conductor which as patterned has a stress gradient extending through at least a portion of the thickness of said conductor, and wherein as photolitographically patterned and prior to coiling said interconnect comprises at least one "V " shaped section which when unsupported, forms said coil. 6. The sensor array as in claim 5, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of "V" shaped sections. 7. The sensor array as in claim 5, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of "V" shaped sections, which when unsupported form said coil. 8. The sensor array as in claim 5, wherein said coiled conductor is di-helic having two winding directions. 9. The sensor array as in claim 5, which comprises a tactile sensing array. 10. The sensor array as in claim 9 which comprises a tactile sensing portion of a robot. 11. The sensor array as in claim 10 wherein said sensor array is arranged in a flexible and stretchable skin of said robot. 12. The sensor array as in claim 5, which includes a plurality of said stretchable interconnects. 13. A stretchable interconnect for electrically connecting electronic devices which are supported for movement relative to one another, comprising: a patterned stretchable conductor extending between two of said devices for electrically coupling a contact of one device to a contact of another device, said conductor being comprised of a conductive material, wherein said interconnect comprises a coiled conductor which as patterned has a stress gradient extending through at least a portion of the thickness of said conductor, and wherein as patterned and prior to coiling said interconnect comprises at least one section shaped to reduce stress concentration, which when unsupported forms said coil. 14. The stretchable interconnect as in claim 13, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of said shaped sections. 15. The stretchable interconnect as in claim 13, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of said shaped sections, which when unsupported forms said coil. 16. The stretchable interconnect as in claim 13, wherein said coiled conductor is di-helic having two winding directions. 17. A sensor array comprising at least two electronic devices which are supported for movement relative to one another and at least one stretchable interconnect for connecting said electronic devices, said interconnect comprising: a patterned stretchable conductor extending between said devices for electrically coupling a contact of one device to a contact of another device, said conductor being formed of a conductive material, wherein said interconnect comprises a coiled conductor which as patterned has a stress gradient extending through at least a portion of the thickness of said conductor, and wherein as patterned and prior to coiling said interconnect comprises at least one section shaped to reduce stress concentration, which when unsupported forms said coil. 18. The sensor array as in claim 17, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of said shaped sections. 19. The sensor array as in claim 17, wherein said interconnect comprises a plurality of said shaped sections, which when unsupported form said coil. 20. The sensor array as in claim 17, wherein said coiled conductor is di-helic having two winding directions. 21. The sensor array as in claim 17, which comprises a tactile sensing array. 22. The sensor array as in claim 21, which comprises a tactile sensing portion of a robot. 23. The sensor array as in claim 22 wherein said sensor array is arranged in a flexible and stretchable skin of said robot. 24. The sensor array as in claim 17, which includes a plurality of said stretchable interconnects. 