An apparatus and a method for controlling a paint canister filling operation includes a controller for determining a total volume of paint required for a painting operation, calculating a required piston position and actuating a motor to move a piston in the interior of the canister to the required position. The controller opens a supply valve connected between the canister interior and a paint supply to fill the canister and monitors the torque applied by the motor to maintain the piston at the required position. When the torque exceeds a set point representing the torque value required to maintain the piston at the required position when the total required paint is in the canister interior, the controller closes the supply valve.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for monitoring a paint canister filling operation, the paint canister being connected to a paint source through a supply valve and including a piston movable in an interior of the canister, the piston being connected to an actuator for applying a force to move the piston, comprising: a sensor adapted to be connected to the actuator for sensing a force applied by the actuator to the piston; and a control means adapted to be connected to the supply valve, to the actuator and to said sensor whereby said sensor is connected to the actuator and said control means is connected to the supply valve, to the actuator and to said sensor, said control means selectively operates the actuator to move the piston to and maintain the piston at a predetermined position in the canister interior representing a total amount of paint required for a painting operation, said control means selectively opens the supply valve to cause paint to flow into the canister interior, and said control means is responsive to a signal generated by said sensor representing a force applied by the actuator to maintain the piston at said predetermined position for closing the supply valve when said force signal represents that said total amount of paint required has been received by the canister. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the actuator is an electric motor and said sensor is a torque sensor for sensing a value of torque generated by the electric motor as representing said force applied to the piston. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the actuator is an electric motor and said sensor is a current sensor for sensing a current flowing in an armature of the electric motor as representing said force applied to the piston. 4. An apparatus for monitoring a paint canister filling operation comprising: a paint canister having a paint receiving interior with a piston slidably movable therein, a position of said piston in said canister interior limiting an amount of paint to be received by the canister, said canister interior being connected to a paint supply through a supply valve; an actuator connected to said piston for applying a force to said piston tending to move said piston in said canister interior; a sensor connected to said actuator for sensing a force applied by said actuator to said piston; and a control means connected to said supply valve, to said actuator and to said sensor, said control means selectively operating said actuator to move said piston to and maintain said piston at a predetermined position in said canister interior representing a total amount of paint required for a painting operation, said control means selectively opening said supply valve to cause paint to flow into said canister interior, and said control means being responsive to a signal generated by said sensor representing a force applied by said actuator to maintain said piston at said predetermined position for closing said supply valve when said force signal represents that said total amount of paint required has been received by said canister. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said actuator is an electric motor and said sensor is a torque sensor for sensing a value of torque generated by said electric motor as representing said force applied to said piston. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said actuator is an electric motor and said sensor is a current sensor for sensing a current flowing in an armature of said electric motor as representing said force applied to said piston. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said actuator is connected to said piston by a ball screw. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said actuator is an electric motor coupled to said ball screw by a belt. 9. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said control means is one of a programmable logic controller and a programmed computer. 10. A method for controlling a volume of paint in a canister during a filling operation, the canister including a piston movable in an interior of the canister, comprising the steps of: a. applying a force to a piston to move the piston to a predetermined required position in an interior of a canister corresponding to a total volume of paint required for a painting operation; b. supplying paint to the canister interior; c. applying a force to the actuator to maintain the piston in the required position; d. comparing the force being applied to the piston to a set point force representing the force required to maintain the piston at the required position; and e. stopping the supply of paint to the canister interior when the force being applied to the piston exceeds the set point force. 11. The method according to claim 10 including prior to performing said step a., moving the piston to an extended position to expel any paint in the canister interior. 12. The method according to claim 10 including prior to performing said step a., determining the total volume of paint required. 13. The method according to claim 10 including prior to performing said step a., calculating the required position for the piston. 14. The method according to claim 10 wherein said step b. is performed by opening a supply valve connected between the canister interior and a paint supply and said step e. is performed by closing the supply valve. 15. The method according to claim 10 wherein said step c. is performed by operating an electric motor connected to the piston by a ball screw. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein said step d. is performed by sensing an armature current flowing in said electric motor and comparing a value of the armature current with a value of the set point. 