A medical system that is coupled to an endoscope which provides a video image to a monitor. The system includes an electrical circuit to overlay a graphic image onto the video image provided by the endoscope. The endoscope is moved by a robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical system adapted to be coupled to an endoscope that is coupled to a monitor which displays a video image provided by the endoscope, the medical system comprising: a robotic arm configured to be coupled to the endoscope; and an electrical circuit that is coupled to said robotic arm and being configured to overlay a graphic image onto the video image; wherein the overlaid graphic image is adjustable to manipulate the video image. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said electrical circuit overlays a dynamic graphic cursor onto the video image. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the dynamic graphic cursor can be moved into the graphic image to select a function. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the function is a movement of said robotic arm. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a controller configured to adjust the endoscope to manipulate the video image in response to adjustments to the overlaid graphic image. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the graphic image comprises at least one of "in" for video zoom in, "out" for video zoom out, and "pan" for video pan movement. 7. A medical system adapted to be coupled to an endoscope that is coupled to a monitor which displays a video image provided by the endoscope, the medical system comprising: movement means for moving the endoscope; and overlay means for overlaying a graphic image onto the video image; wherein the overlaid graphic image is adjustable to manipulate the video image. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said overlay means overlays a dynamic graphic cursor onto the video image. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the dynamic graphic cursor can be moved into the graphic image to select a function. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the function is a movement of said movement means. 11. The system of claim 7 further comprising control means for adjusting the endoscope to manipulate the video image in response to adjustments to the overlaid graphic image. 12. A method for operating a medical system, comprising: moving an endoscope within a patient; displaying a video image provided by the endoscope on a monitor coupled to the endoscope; and overlaying a graphic image onto the video image; wherein the overlaid graphic image is adjustable to manipulate the video image. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising selecting a function by moving a dynamic graphic cursor into the graphic image. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising adjusting the endoscope in response to the selection of the function. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the graphic image comprises at least one of an "in" function for video zoom in, an "out" function for video zoom out, and a "pan" function for video pan movement. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising adjusting the endoscope to manipulate the video image in response to adjustments to the overlaid graphic image. 17. A medical system adapted to be coupled to an endoscope that is coupled to a monitor which displays a video image provided by the endoscope, the medical system comprising: a robotic arm configured to be coupled to the endoscope; an electrical circuit that is coupled to said robotic arm and being configured to overlay a dynamic graphic cursor and graphic image onto the video image; and a cursor input device coupled to said electrical circuit; wherein the overlaid graphic image is adjustable by the dynamic graphic cursor to manipulate the video image. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the dynamic graphic cursor can be moved into the graphic image to select a function. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the function is a movement of said robotic arm. 20. The system of claim 17 further comprising a controller configured to adjust the endoscope to manipulate the video image in response to adjustments to the overlaid graphic image. 21. The system of claim 17 wherein the graphic image comprises at least one of "in" for video zoom in, "out" for video zoom out, and "pan" for video pan movement; and wherein the "in," "out," and "pan" are selectable by the dynamic graphic cursor. 22. A medical system adapted to be coupled to an endoscope that is coupled to a monitor which displays a video image provided by the endoscope, the medical system comprising: movement means for moving the endoscope; overlay means for overlaying a dynamic graphic cursor and a graphic image onto the video image; and input means for moving the dynamic graphic cursor; wherein the overlaid graphic image is adjustable by the dynamic graphic cursor to manipulate the video image. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the dynamic graphic cursor can be moved into the graphic image to select a function. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the function is a movement of said movement means. 25. The system of claim 22 further comprising control means for adjusting the endoscope to manipulate the video image in response to adjustments to the overlaid graphic image. 