A robotic welding station cleaning assembly (10) for removing particulates from an air-filled chamber surrounding a welding robot (12). A frame (14) is positioned about the robot (12) and includes a top (20) defining an opening (26) therein. A shield (28) is supported by the frame (14) to define the robot chamber. A spark arrestor (48) is supported on the frame (14) for controlling sparks created by welding. A blower housing (30) having an inlet (27) is disposed immediately above and in direct fluid communication with the opening (26) to move air from the chamber to the blower housing (30). The frame (14) includes a separate support stand (32) for supporting the blower housing (30) on the top (20) of the chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic welding station air cleaning assembly comprising: a welding robot; a frame disposed about said robot including spaced posts defining sides and beams defining a top; said top defining an opening therein; a shield supported by said frame to define a closed robot chamber with said opening therein; a spark arrestor supported on said frame for controlling sparks created by welding in said chamber; a blower housing disposed between said beams and having an inlet disposed immediately above and in direct fluid communication with said opening in said top to move air from said chamber to said blower housing; and a filter supported by said blower housing for removing dust from the air. 2. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said top is closed except for said opening therein. 3. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said blower housing is supported on said beams of said top. 4. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said frame includes a support stand supporting said blower housing on said top of said chamber. 5. An assembly as set forth in claim 4 wherein said support stand includes legs disposed on opposite sides of said chamber and supporting said blower housing independently of said posts. 6. An assembly as set forth in claim 5 including a pair of said legs on each of said opposite sides and cross trusses interconnecting said legs of each pair. 7. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said blower housing includes an outlet and a blower for moving air from said chamber and through said blower housing to said outlet. 8. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 including a dampener disposed on said blower housing. 9. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein the spark arrestor includes a baffle removably disposed on said housing for removing particulates from said air chamber. 10. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 a pulse cleaning system for delivering pulses of air to the filter. 11. An assembly as set forth in claim 10 including a controller for controlling operation of said pulse cleaning system. 12. A robotic welding assembly comprising; welding robot for welding within a chamber, said chamber defined by a frame disposed about said robot including spaced vertical posts and horizontal beams interconnecting said posts; a shield supported by and extending between said posts to defined sides, a top supported by said beams and defining an opening therei, supported over and between said beams and blower housing having an inlet disposed immediately above and in direct fluid communication with said opening to move air from said chamber; a filter supported by said blower housing, a filter cleaning system supported by said housing for cleaning said filter, and a spark arrestor supported by said blower housing for controlling sparks generated by welding in said chamber. 