A system is provided that includes a load lock apparatus having an interior configured to receive an object. At least one inlet valve may be flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, and at least one outlet valve may also be flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus. A controller may be configured to selectively control opening and closing of the at least one inlet valve. The load lock apparatus may include an object receiving mechanism that is movable within the interior of the load lock apparatus to throttle the evacuation of the interior. Several methods of using the system and load lock apparatuses are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising an interior configured to receive an object; at least one inlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus; at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus; and a controller configured to selectively control opening and closing of the at least one inlet valve, wherein the controller is configured to open the at least one inlet valve and leave the one inlet valve open while the at least one outlet valve is closed for a predetermined period of time so as to substantially equilibrate pressure in the interior with pressure exterior of the load lock apparatus. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to open the at least one outlet valve after the predetermined period of time to prevent over pressurization of the interior. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the load lock apparatus comprises at least one opening permitting insertion of the object into the interior of the apparatus. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the load lock apparatus further comprises at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the opening. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to open the at least one gate valve after the at least one outlet valve is opened. 6. The system according to claim 4, wherein the at least one opening comprises first and second openings and the at least one gate valve comprises first and second gate valves. 7. The system according to claim 4, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus via the at least one gate valve. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the controller is configured to selectively open and close the at least one gate valve to allow transfer of the object through the at least one opening. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined period of time ranges from about 0.1 second to about 4 seconds. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the predetermined period of time is about 1.5 seconds. 11. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 1, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 12. The substrate processing system according to claim 11, wherein the processed substrate is chosen from a wafer and a substrate intended for a flat panel display. 13. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 1, wherein the object is an unprocessed substrate; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 14. The substrate processing system according to claim 13, wherein the unprocessed substrate is chosen from a wafer and a substrate intended for a flat panel display. 15. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising an interior configured to receive an object; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; and a pressure relief valve associated with the gas supply flow path to maintain pressure of gas flowing to the interior of the load lock apparatus below a predetermined maximum pressure. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the load lock apparatus comprises at least one opening permitting insertion of the object into the interior of the apparatus. 17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the load lock apparatus further comprises at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the at least one opening. 18. The system according to claim 15, wherein the predetermined maximum pressure is greater than pressure external to the load lock apparatus. 19. The system according to claim 15, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 20. The system according to claim 19, wherein the transfer chamber is at substantially vacuum pressure. 21. The system according to claim 15, further comprising a transfer mechanism configured to transfer the object to the interior of the load lock apparatus from an environment at atmospheric pressure external to the load lock apparatus. 22. The system according to claim 15, further comprising a controller configured to open the at least one inlet valve. 23. The system according to claim 15, further comprising the gas source, wherein gas from the gas source is provided to purge the interior of the load lock apparatus. 24. The system according to claim 15, further comprising the gas source, wherein gas from the gas source is provided to change the pressure in the interior of the load lock apparatus. 25. The system according to claim 15, further comprising a filter associated with the gas flow path to remove contaminants from the gas provided by the gas source. 26. The system according to claim 15, wherein the at least one inlet valve comprises a primary inlet valve and a plurality of secondary inlet valves, and the filter is arranged in the gas flow path between the primary inlet valve and the plurality of secondary inlet valves. 27. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 15, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 28. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 15, wherein the object is an unprocessed substrate; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 29. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising an interior configured to receive an object; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; and a pressure limiter associated with the gas supply flow path to maintain pressure of gas flowing to the interior of the load lock apparatus below a predetermined maximum pressure. 30. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising an interior configured to receive an object; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; a gas outlet flow path configured to provide flow of gas from the interior of the load lock apparatus; at least one outlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas outlet flow path; and a check valve associated with the gas outlet flow path downstream from the at least one outlet valve, wherein the check valve prevents backflow of gas while the at least one outlet valve is open. 31. The system according to claim 30, wherein the load lock apparatus comprises at least one opening permitting insertion of the object into the interior of the load lock apparatus. 32. The system according to claim 31, wherein the load lock apparatus further comprises at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the at least one opening. 33. The system according to claim 30, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 34. The system according to claim 33, wherein the transfer chamber is at substantially vacuum pressure. 35. The system according to claim 30, further comprising a transfer mechanism configured to transfer the object to the interior of the load lock apparatus from an environment at atmospheric pressure external to the load lock apparatus. 36. The system according to claim 30, further comprising a controller configured to selectively control opening and closing of the at least one inlet valve and the at least one outlet valve, wherein the controller is configured to open the at least one inlet valve and leave the one inlet valve open while the at least one outlet valve is closed for a predetermined period of time so as to substantially equilibrate pressure in the interior with pressure exterior of the load lock apparatus, and wherein the controller is configured to open the at least one outlet valve after the predetermined period of time. 37. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 30, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 38. A wafer processing system comprising: a system according to claim 30, wherein the object is an unprocessed substrate; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 39. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising an interior, at least first and second inlets arranged to provide flow of gas to the interior, and an object receiving mechanism located within the interior to receive an object, wherein the first inlet is arranged above the object receiving mechanism and the second inlet is arranged below the object receiving mechanism; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus via the at least first and second inlets; and at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path. 40. The system according to claim 39, wherein the at least first and second inlets further comprises a third inlet arranged below the object receiving mechanism. 41. The system according to claim 40, wherein the inlets are configured to provide substantially simultaneous flow of gas into the interior of the load lock apparatus. 42. The system according to claim 40, wherein at least some of the inlets are arranged symmetrically about the interior of the load lock apparatus. 43. The system according to claim 39, wherein the at least one inlet valve comprises a first inlet valve and a second inlet valve, the first inlet valve being flow coupled to the first inlet, and the second inlet valve being flow coupled to the second inlet. 44. The system according to claim 39, wherein the at least one inlet valve comprises a primary valve and a plurality of secondary valves, the primary valve being flow coupled to the secondary valves and each of the secondary valves being flow coupled to one of the at least first and second inlets. 45. The system according to claim 44, further comprising a controller configured to selectively open and close the primary valve and the plurality of secondary valves. 46. The system according to claim 45, wherein the controller is configured to selectively open and close the primary valve and plurality of secondary valves independent of each other. 47. The system according to claim 39, wherein the object receiving mechanism is configured to be movable within the interior of the load lock apparatus. 48. The system according to claim 47, further comprising a controller configured to control movement of the object receiving mechanism. 49. The system according to claim 39, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 50. The system according to claim 49, wherein the transfer chamber is at substantially vacuum pressure. 51. The system according to claim 39, further comprising a transfer mechanism configured to transfer the object to the interior of the load lock apparatus from an environment at substantially atmospheric pressure external to the load lock apparatus. 52. The system according to claim 39, further comprising a controller configured to selectively open and close the at least one inlet valve. 53. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 39, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 54. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 39, wherein the object is an unprocessed substrate; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 55. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising an interior, a plurality of inlets arranged to provide flow of gas to the interior, and an object receiving mechanism located within the interior to receive the object; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus via the plurality of inlets; and a plurality of inlet valves, wherein each of the plurality of inlet valves is associated with a respective one of the plurality of inlets to control flow of gas through the plurality of inlets. 56. The system according to claim 55, wherein the plurality of inlets are configured to provide substantially simultaneous flow of gas into the interior of the load lock apparatus. 57. The system according to claim 55, wherein at least some of the inlets are arranged symmetrically about the interior of the load lock apparatus. 58. The system according to claim 55, further comprising a primary inlet valve, wherein the plurality of inlet valves are secondary inlet valves flow coupled to the primary inlet valve. 59. The system according to claim 55, further comprising a controller configured to control the opening and closing of the primary inlet valve and the secondary inlet valves. 60. The system according to claim 59, wherein the controller is configured to control the opening and closing of the primary inlet valve and the secondary inlet valves independent of each other. 61. The system according to claim 55, wherein at least one of the inlets is arranged above the object receiving mechanism to permit gas flow across an object received by the object receiving mechanism. 62. The system according to claim 55, wherein the object receiving mechanism is configured to be movable within the interior of the load lock apparatus. 63. The system according to claim 62, further comprising a controller configured to control movement of the object receiving mechanism. 64. The system according to claim 55, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 65. The system according to claim 64, wherein the transfer chamber is at substantially vacuum pressure. 66. The system according to claim 55, further comprising a transfer mechanism configured to transfer the object to the interior of the load lock apparatus from an environment at atmospheric pressure external to the load lock apparatus. 67. The system according to claim 55, further comprising a gas outlet flow path configured to provide flow of gas from the interior of the load lock apparatus, and at least one outlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas outlet flow path. 68. The system according to claim 67, further comprising a controller configured to selectively open and close the plurality of inlet valves and the at least one outlet valve. 69. The system according to claim 68, further comprising a primary inlet valve, wherein the plurality of inlet valves are secondary inlet valves flow coupled to the primary inlet valve, and the controller is configured to open the secondary inlet valves for at least a predetermined period of time while holding the primary valve closed and the at least one outlet valve open. 70. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 55, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 71. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 55, wherein the object is an unprocessed substrate; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 72. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising a chamber having an interior, at least one opening permitting placement of an object into the chamber, and at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the at least one opening; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the chamber of the load lock apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the chamber of the load lock apparatus; and a controller configured to selectively control opening and closing of the at least one inlet valve and the at least one outlet valve, wherein the controller is configured to control the inlet and outlet valves such that the inlet and outlet valves are simultaneously in an open position for at least a period of time when the at least one gate valve is in a closed position closing the at least one opening, so as to allow purging of contaminants from the interior. 73. The system according to claim 72, further comprising an object receiving mechanism configured to receive the object, wherein the object receiving mechanism is movable within the interior of the load lock apparatus, and wherein the controller is configured to control movement of the object receiving mechanism. 74. The system according to claim 72, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus via the at least one gate valve. 75. The system according to claim 74, wherein the controller is configured to selectively open and close the at least one gate valve to allow transfer of the object through the at least one opening. 76. The system according to claim 72, wherein the at least one opening comprises first and second openings and the at least one gate valve comprises first and second gate valves. 77. The system according to claim 76, further comprising a transfer mechanism configured to allow transfer of the object to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the first opening. 78. The system according to claim 76, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus via the second opening. 79. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 72, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 80. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 72, wherein the object is an unprocessed wafer; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed wafer to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 81. A system comprising: a load lock apparatus comprising a chamber having an interior, at least one opening permitting placement of an object into the chamber, and at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the at least one opening; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the chamber of the load lock apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the chamber of the load lock apparatus; and a controller configured to control the at least one inlet valve and the at least one outlet valve so as to provide a high flow rate of gas into the chamber for at least a period of time while the at least one gate valve is in a closed position and to provide a low flow rate of gas into the chamber for at least a period of time while the at least one gate valve is in an open position. 82. The system according to claim 81, wherein the at least one inlet valve comprises a first inlet valve and a second inlet valve, and wherein the controller is configured to control the first and second inlet valves and the outlet valve such that gas flow is provided through the first inlet valve while the at least one outlet valve is closed and gas flow is provided through the second inlet valve while the at least one outlet valve is in the open position. 83. The system according to claim 81, wherein the at least one opening comprises first and second openings and the at least one gate valve comprises first and second gate valves. 84. The system according to claim 83, further comprising a transfer mechanism configured to allow transfer of the object to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the first opening during the low flow rate of gas into the chamber. 85. The system according to claim 84, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the second opening. 86. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 81, wherein the object is a processed substrate; and a transfer chamber arranged to transfer the processed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 87. A substrate processing system comprising: a system according to claim 81, wherein the object is an unprocessed substrate; and a transfer mechanism arranged to transfer the unprocessed substrate to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 88. An apparatus for use in substrate processing comprising: a chamber including an interior, at least one opening permitting placement of an object into the chamber, and at least one exhaust port; at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the at least one opening; an exhaust flow path flow communicating with the interior of the chamber via the at least one exhaust port; an object receiving mechanism located within the chamber, the object receiving mechanism being configured to be movable in the interior so as to adjust conductance of the exhaust flow path via the at least one exhaust port; and a controller configured to control movement of the object receiving mechanism to adjust the conductance of exhaust flow from the interior. 89. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the chamber includes a sub-chamber and the exhaust port is located in the sub-chamber. 90. The apparatus according to claim 89, wherein the object receiving mechanism is configured to reduce conductance when the object receiving mechanism is in a lowered position and to increase conductance when the object receiving mechanism is in a raised positioned. 91. The apparatus according to claim 89, wherein movement of the object receiving mechanism adjusts the distance between a lower surface of the object receiving mechanism and an upper surface of the sub-chamber. 92. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the object receiving mechanism comprises a movement mechanism chosen from a linear actuator, a hydraulic piston, and a pneumatic piston. 93. The apparatus according to claim 88, further comprising a vacuum pump associated with the exhaust flow path to cause vacuum flow in the exhaust flow path. 94. The apparatus according to claim 93, wherein the object receiving mechanism comprises a vacuum hold down system to hold an object to the object receiving mechanism when the object receiving mechanism is moved. 95. The apparatus according to claim 94, wherein the object receiving mechanism comprises a hollow shaft connected to a plate member having at least one through hole, and wherein the vacuum hold down system comprises a vacuum flow path configured to place the hollow shaft in flow communication with the vacuum pump. 96. The apparatus according to claim 95, wherein the plate member further comprises a plurality of raised portions to assist in securing the object to the plate member. 97. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the object receiving mechanism comprises a plurality of receiving portions, and wherein each receiving portion is configured to receive the object. 98. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the interior of the chamber has a volume of about 1.5 liters. 99. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the interior of the chamber has a volume ranging from about 0.5 liters to about 10 liters. 100. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the object receiving mechanism and outlet port are symmetrically located within the chamber. 101. The apparatus according to claim 88, further comprising a station supported by the chamber, and wherein the station is configured to receive the object at least one of prior to placement of the object within the chamber and after removal of the object from the chamber. 102. The apparatus according to claim 101, wherein the station is configured to allow cooling of the object after removal from the chamber. 103. The apparatus according to 88, wherein the chamber includes an plurality of inlets to allow gas flow into the interior of the chamber to change the pressure in the chamber. 104. The apparatus according to claim 103, wherein the inlets are configured to provide substantially simultaneous flow of gas into the interior of the chamber. 105. The apparatus according to claim 103, wherein at least some of the inlets are arranged symmetrically about the interior of the apparatus. 106. The apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the at least one opening comprises a first opening and a second opening, and the at least one gate valve includes a first gate valve and a second gate valve. 107. A substrate processing system comprising: an apparatus according to claim 88; and a transfer mechanism configured to allow transfer of the object to the interior of the apparatus through the at least one opening. 108. The substrate processing system according to claim 107, wherein the at least one opening comprises first and second openings, the at least one gate valve comprises first and second gate valves, and wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to allow transfer of the object to the interior of the apparatus through the first opening. 109. The substrate processing system according to claim 108, further comprising a transfer chamber arranged to allow transfer of the object from the transfer chamber to the interior of the apparatus through the second opening. 110. A substrate processing system comprising: an apparatus according to claim 88; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; and a pressure relief valve associated with the gas supply flow path to maintain pressure of gas flowing to the interior of the apparatus below a predetermined maximum pressure. 111. A substrate processing system comprising: an apparatus according to claim 88; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the apparatus; at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path; and a pressure limiter associated with the gas supply flow path to maintain pressure of gas flowing to the interior of the apparatus below a predetermined maximum pressure. 112. A substrate processing system comprising: an apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the chamber comprises at least first and second inlets arranged to provide flow of gas to the interior, and wherein the first inlet is arranged above the object receiving mechanism and the second inlet is arranged below the object receiving mechanism; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the apparatus via the at least first and second inlets; and at least one inlet valve configured to control flow of gas through the gas supply flow path. 113. The substrate processing system according to claim 112, wherein the at least first and second inlets are configured to provide substantially simultaneous flow of gas into the interior of the apparatus. 114. The substrate processing system according to claim 112, further comprising a third inlet arranged below the object receiving mechanism, wherein at least some of the inlets are arranged symmetrically about the interior of the apparatus. 115. A substrate processing system comprising: an apparatus according to claim 88, wherein the chamber comprises a plurality of inlets arranged to provide flow of gas to the interior; a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the apparatus via the plurality of inlets; and a plurality of inlet valves, wherein each of the plurality of inlet valves is associated with a respective one of the plurality of inlets to control flow of gas through the inlets. 116. The substrate processing system according to claim 115, further comprising a primary inlet valve, wherein the plurality of inlet valves are secondary inlet valves flow coupled to the primary inlet valve. 117. The substrate processing system according to claim 116, wherein the controller is configured to control the opening and closing of the primary inlet valve and the secondary inlet valves. 118. The substrate processing system according to claim 115, wherein at least one of the inlets is arranged above the object receiving mechanism to permit gas flow across an object received by the object receiving mechanism. 119. The substrate processing system according to claim 115, wherein one of the plurality of inlets is arranged above the object receiving mechanism to provide substantially symmetric flow across an object received by the object receiving mechanism. 120. The substrate processing system according to claim 119, wherein other of the plurality of inlets are symmetrically arranged below the object receiving mechanism. 121. A method of adjusting pressure in an interior of a load lock apparatus to be substantially at equilibrium with pressure external to the load lock apparatus, wherein the load lock apparatus is associated with at least one inlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, and at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, the method comprising: opening the inlet valve so as to flow gas at a predetermined -flow rate into the interior of the load lock apparatus; maintaining the outlet valve in a closed position for a predetermined period of time after the opening of the inlet valve so as to enable pressure in the interior to approach pressure external to the load lock apparatus; and opening the at least one outlet valve after the predetermined period of time elapses so as to prevent over pressurization in the interior. 122. The method according to claim 121, wherein the load lock apparatus is further associated with a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the inlet valve, wherein the method comprises supplying gas from the gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 123. The method according to claim 121, wherein supplying gas from the gas source comprises supplying nitrogen gas. 124. A method of using a load lock during substrate processing, comprising: adjusting pressure in an interior of a load lock apparatus according to claim 121; and moving a substrate into the interior of the load lock apparatus through an opening in the load lock apparatus. 125. The method according to claim 124, further comprising receiving the substrate on an object transfer mechanism within the load lock apparatus. 126. The method according to claim 125, further comprising moving the object transfer mechanism into contact with the substrate. 127. A method of using a load lock apparatus during substrate processing, comprising: placing a substrate on an object transport mechanism within the load lock apparatus; adjusting pressure in an interior of the load lock apparatus according to claim 121; and moving the substrate out of the interior of the load lock apparatus through an opening in the load lock apparatus. 128. The method according to claim 127, wherein placing the substrate on an object transfer mechanism comprises moving the substrate from a transfer chamber at vacuum pressure to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 129. A method of removing contaminants from a load lock apparatus comprising a chamber having an interior, at least one opening permitting placement of an object into the chamber, and at least one gate valve configured to selectively close the at least one opening, wherein the load lock apparatus is associated with at least one inlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, and at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, the method comprising: opening the inlet valve so as to flow gas at a predetermined flow rate into the interior of the load lock apparatus; opening the at least one outlet valve so as to flow gas out of the interior of the load lock apparatus; and maintaining the at least one inlet valve and the at least one outlet valve simultaneously open for at least a period of time while the gate valve is in a closed position so as to allow removal of contaminants from the interior of the load lock apparatus. 130. The method according to claim 129, wherein the load lock apparatus is further associated with a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the inlet valve, wherein the method comprises supplying gas from the gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 131. The method according to claim 130, wherein supplying gas from the gas source comprises supplying nitrogen gas. 132. A method of using a load lock apparatus during substrate processing, comprising: removing contaminants from a load lock apparatus according to claim 129; and moving a substrate into the interior of the load lock apparatus through an opening in the load lock apparatus. 133. The method according to claim 132, further comprising receiving the substrate on an object transfer mechanism within the load lock apparatus. 134. The method according to claim 133, further comprising moving the object transfer mechanism into contact with the substrate. 135. The method according to claim 132, wherein moving the substrate into the interior of the load lock apparatus comprises moving the substrate from a transfer chamber at vacuum pressure to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 136. A method of purging a load lock apparatus comprising a chamber having an interior, an opening permitting placement of an object into the chamber, and a gate valve configured to selectively close the opening, wherein the load lock apparatus is associated with at least one inlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, and at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, the method comprising: opening the at least one inlet valve to provide a high flow rate of gas into the interior; maintaining the high flow rate of gas into the interior for at least a period of time while the gate valve is in a closed position closing the opening; opening the at least one outlet valve; changing the flow rate of the gas from a high flow rate of gas to a low flow rate of gas into the interior for at least a period of time while the gate valve is in the closed position; placing the gate valve in an open position; and maintaining the low flow rate of gas into the interior for at least a period of time after placing the gate valve in the open position. 137. The method according to claim 136, wherein the at least one inlet valve comprises a first inlet valve and second inlet valve, and the opening of the at least one inlet valve to provide high flow rate of gas into the interior comprises opening the first inlet valve to provide the high flow rate of gas into the interior. 138. The method according to claim 137, wherein changing the high flow rate of gas to the low flow rate of gas comprises closing the first inlet valve and opening the second inlet valve. 139. The method according to claim 136, wherein the load lock apparatus is further associated with a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the inlet valve, wherein the method comprises supplying gas from the gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus. 140. The method according to claim 139, wherein supplying gas from the gas source comprises supplying nitrogen gas. 141. A method of using a load lock apparatus during substrate processing, comprising: purging a load lock apparatus according to claim 136; and moving a substrate into the interior of the load lock apparatus through the opening in the load lock apparatus. 142. The method according to claim 141, wherein moving the substrate into the interior of the load lock comprises moving the wafer into the load lock while maintaining the low flow rate of gas into the interior. 143. A method of controlling the rate of gas exhaust in a load lock apparatus comprising a chamber including an interior, at least one exhaust port, an exhaust flow path flow communicating with the interior of the chamber via the at least one exhaust port, and an object receiving mechanism located within the chamber, the object receiving mechanism being configured to be movable in the interior, the method comprising: causing vacuum flow from the interior to the exhaust flow path via the at least one exhaust port; and moving the object receiving mechanism within the interior to adjust the throttling of the vacuum flow from the interior to the exhaust flow path via the at least one exhaust port. 144. The method according to claim 143, wherein moving the object receiving mechanism within the interior to adjust the throttling comprises moving the object receiving mechanism away from the at least one exhaust port to decreases the throttling of the vacuum flow. 145. The method according to claim 143, wherein moving the object receiving mechanism within the interior to adjust the throttling comprises moving the object receiving mechanism towards the at least one exhaust port to increase the throttling of the vacuum flow. 146. A method of using a load lock apparatus during substrate processing, comprising: moving a substrate into an interior of a load lock apparatus through an opening in the load lock apparatus; exhausting gas from the interior; and controlling the rate of exhaust of gas according to claim 143. 147. The method according to claim 146, wherein the evacuating a gas from the interior is performed before moving the substrate into the interior of the load lock apparatus. 148. A method of changing the pressure in a load lock apparatus comprising a chamber including an interior, at least one exhaust port, an exhaust flow path flow communicating with the interior of the chamber via the at least one exhaust port, an object receiving mechanism located within the chamber, the object receiving mechanism being configured to be movable in the interior, wherein the load lock apparatus is associated with at least one inlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, at least one outlet valve flow coupled to the interior of the load lock apparatus, and a gas supply flow path configured to provide flow of gas from a gas source to the interior of the load lock apparatus through the inlet valve, the method comprising: increasing the pressure in the chamber from vacuum pressure to substantially atmospheric pressure by opening the inlet valve so as to flow gas at a predetermined flow rate into the interior of the load lock apparatus, maintaining the outlet valve in a closed position for a predetermined period of time after the opening of the inlet valve so as to enable pressure in the interior to approach pressure external to the load lock apparatus; and decreasing the pressure in the chamber from substantially atmospheric pressure to vacuum pressure by controlling the rate of gas exhaust according to claim 143. 149. The method according to claim 148, wherein the at least one inlet valve comprises a plurality of inlet valves, and wherein the method comprises simultaneously flowing gas from the gas source through the plurality of inlets into the interior of the load lock apparatus to change the pressure from vacuum pressure to substantially atmospheric pressure. 150. The method according to claim 149, wherein moving the object receiving mechanism within the interior to adjust the throttling comprises moving the object receiving mechanism away from the at least one exhaust port to decrease the throttling of gas flow. 151. The method according to claim 149, wherein moving the object receiving mechanism within the interior to adjust the throttling comprises moving the object receiving mechanism towards the at least one exhaust port to increase the throttling of gas flow. 