The present invention relates to feeder assemblies, and more specifically, relates to feeder assemblies for a tube-filling machine. The present invention includes at least one robotic arm capable of moving tubes and tube holders between two locations. The robotic arm may also move the tubes and tube holders relative to one another in order that the distance between adjacent tubes is substantially equal to the holders which carry and house the tubes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A feeder for a tube-filling machine including a sequence of stations located along a continuous conveyor provided with a plurality of tube holders, the sequence of stations adapted for filling and sealing empty packaging tubes, the continuous conveyor including a straight section adapted for handling empty packaging tubes from a magazine thereof and inserting the empty packaging tubes into the tube holders, the tube holders having a predetermined mutual spacing on the conveyor, the feeder comprising: at least one robot device having an arm capable of rotating, said arm provided with a beam arrangement, said beam arrangement including at least one elongated straight beam, wherein a plurality of tube-handling members are arranged on said straight beam; a positioning element for positioning each of said tube-handling members in a first position and moving said tube-handling members into a second position, wherein a distance between adjacent tube-handling members in said first position corresponds to a spacing between said plurality of tube holders on said conveyor and a distance in said second position corresponds to a center distance between a plurality of adjacent tubes in said magazine. 2. The feeder according to claim 1, wherein said beam arrangement includes two elongated straight beams, said beams provided with a set of tube-handling members, wherein at least one of said beams can rotate about an longitudinal axis. 3. The feeder according to claim 2, wherein said tube-handling members are adapted for gripping an inside of said plurality of tubes. 4. The feeder according to any one of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein two robots are arranged between said magazine and said straight beam arrangement, wherein said robots are programmed to alternatively collect said tubes from said magazine and transfer said tubes into said tube holders. 5. The feeder according to claim 4, wherein said conveyor includes two rows of said plurality of tube holders, wherein said feeder has two beam parts, each with a first set and second set of tube-handling members, said first set of tube-handling members being arranged to insert said tubes into said first row of said tube holders and said second set of tube-handling members arranged to insert tubes into a second row of said tube holders. 6. The feeder according to claim 1, wherein said first position and said second position differ in dimension. 7. A feeder for a tube filling machine, the feeder comprising: a plurality of tube holders arranged adjacent to one another; a plurality of tubes arranged adjacent to one another; at least one robot device having an arm capable of rotating, said arm provided with a beam arrangement, said beam arrangement including at least one elongated straight beam, wherein a plurality of tube-handling members are arranged on said straight beam; and a positioning element for positioning each of said tube-handling members in a first position and moving said tube-handling members into a second position, wherein a distance between adjacent tube-handling members in said first position corresponds to a spacing between said plurality of tube holders and a distance in said second position corresponds to a center distance between said plurality of tubes. 8. The feeder according to claim 7, wherein said beam arrangement includes two elongated straight beams, said beams provided with a set of tube-handling members, wherein at least one of said beams can rotate about an longitudinal axis. 9. The feeder according to claim 7, wherein said tube-handling members are adapted for gripping an inside of said plurality of tubes. 10. The feeder according to any one of claim 7, 8 or 9, further comprising a magazine and a conveyor, wherein two robots are arranged between said magazine and said straight beam arrangement, wherein said robots are programmed to alternatively collect said tubes from said magazine and transfer said tubes into said tube holders. 11. The feeder according to claim 10, wherein said conveyor includes two rows of said plurality of tube holders, wherein said feeder has two beam parts, each with a first set and second set of tube-handling members, said first set of tube-handling members being arranged to insert said tubes into said first row of said tube holders and said second set of tube-handling members arranged to insert tubes into a second row of said tube holders. 12. The feeder according to claim 7, wherein said first position and said second position differ in dimension. 13. A feeder for a tube filling machine, said feeder comprising: a plurality of tube holders; a plurality of tubes; at least one robot device having an arm, said arm provided with a beam arrangement having a longitudinal axis, said beam arrangement including at least two elongated straight beams, wherein at least one of said straight beams includes a set of tube-handling members arranged on said beam, wherein at least one of said beams can rotate about said longitudinal axis; and a positioning element for positioning each of said tube-handling members in a first position and moving said tube-handling members into a second position, wherein a distance between said tube-handling members in said first position corresponds to a spacing between said plurality of tube holders and a distance in said second position corresponds to a center distance between said plurality of tubes. 14. The feeder according to claim 13, wherein said tube-handling members are adapted for gripping an inside of said plurality of tubes. 15. The feeder according to any one of claim 13 or 14, further comprising a magazine and a conveyor, wherein two robots are arranged between said magazine and said straight beam arrangement, wherein said robots are programmed to alternatively collect said tubes from said magazine and transfer said tubes into said tube holders. 16. The feeder according to claim 15, wherein said conveyor includes two rows of said tube holders, wherein said feeder has two beam parts, each with a first set and second set of tube-handling members, said first set of tube-handling members being arranged to insert said tubes into said first row of said tube holders and said second set of tube-handling members arranged to insert tubes into said second row of said tube holders. 17. The feeder according to claim 13, wherein said first position and said second position differ in dimension. 