A media storage library using a horizontal cell array structure is provided. The library comprises an enclosure containing at least one horizontal array of storage cells and at least one picker robot that can move horizontally over the cell array by means of guide rails. Multiple horizontal cell arrays may be stacked vertically in separate rows, wherein the space between the rows is limited by the vertical height of the picker robot. The horizontal arrays may slide horizontally out of the library enclosure, creating an access pathway for human operators. In addition, multiple horizontal arrays may be arranged end to end within each row.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media storage library, comprising: at least one horizontal tray containing an array of media storage cells arranged in horizontal rows and columns, wherein the at least one horizontal tray can slide horizontally along a first set of guide rails; at least one picker robot that can place objects into and retrieve objects from the array of media storage cells, wherein the at least one picker robot moves horizontally along the array of media storage cells by means of at least one of the first set of guide rails and a second set of guide rails; wherein the array of media storage cells and the at least one picker robot are contained within an enclosure. 2. The media storage library according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of horizontal array trays. 3. The media storage library according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of picker robots. 4. The media storage library according to claim 1, wherein the at least one horizontal tray can be removed from the enclosure, leaving an access pathway within the enclosure. 5. The media storage library according to claim 4, wherein a width of the access pathway is determined by a width of the at least one horizontal tray. 6. A media storage library, comprising: a plurality of horizontal array trays; at least one horizontal array tray containing an array of media storage cells arranged in horizontal rows and columns, wherein the at least one horizontal array tray can slide horizontally along a first set of guide rails; at least one picker robot that can place objects into and retrieve objects from the array of media storage cells, wherein the at least one picker robot moves horizontally along the array of media storage cells by means of at least one of the first set of guide rails and a second set of guide rails; wherein the array of media storage cells and the at least one picker robot are contained within an enclosure, and wherein the plurality of horizontal array trays are arranged end to end in a horizontal bank. 7. The media storage library according to claim 6, wherein the plurality of horizontal array trays within the horizontal bank are connected together. 8. A media storage library, comprising: at least one horizontal tray containing an array of media storage cells arranged in horizontal rows and columns; at least one picker robot that can place objects into and retrieve objects from the array of media storage cells, wherein the at least one picker robot moves horizontally along the array of media storage cells by means of guide rails; wherein the array of media storage cells and the at least one picker robot are contained within an enclosure; and wherein a plurality of horizontal array trays are arranged in a vertical series of horizontal rows. 9. The media storage library according to claim 8, wherein a vertical space between the vertical series of horizontal rows is limited by a height of the at least one picker robot. 10. A media storage library, comprising: at least one horizontal tray containing an array of media storage cells arranged in horizontal rows and columns, wherein the at least one horizontal array tray can slide horizontally along a first set of guide rails; at least one picker robot that can place objects into and retrieve objects from the array of media storage cells, wherein the at least one picker robot moves horizontally along the array of media storage cells by means of at least one of the first set of guide rails and a second set of guide rails; wherein the array of media storage cells and the at least one picker robot are contained within an enclosure; and wherein the at least one horizontal array tray can be removed from the enclosure by an automated mechanism, leaving an access pathway within the enclosure. 