A linear motion assembly is provided as part of a robot for processing substrates in a vacuum. An effector assembly is mounted for linear movement on linear bearings. The end effectors are driven by cables which in turn are driven by a drive which is positioned in an adjacent pressure vessel maintained at atmospheric pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly comprising: a linear bearing mounted within said vacuum chamber; at least one end effector for engaging and supporting a substrate for transport, mounted for linear movement on said linear bearing; a housing mounted on the linear motion assembly and enclosing a pressure chamber, said pressure chamber being isolated from said vacuum chamber; and a drive system mounted within said housing and operatively connected with said at least one end effector to cause movement of said end effector along the linear bearing, wherein said drive system is connected to said end effector through a dynamic seal, to maintain said pressure chamber in isolation from said vacuum chamber. 2. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly, as described in claim 1, wherein said linear bearing further comprises: at least one bearing rail fixed on said linear motion assembly; at least one bearing block attached to said at least one end effector and mounted for linear motion on said bearing rail; and a labyrinth seal constructed to trap particle contaminants generated by said linear bearing. 3. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly, as described in claim 1, wherein said pressure chamber is maintained substantially at atmospheric pressure. 4. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly, as described in claim 1, wherein said drive system further comprises: a capstan mounted on a shaft for rotation on said assembly; a cable helically wound on said capstan and connected at either end to said at least one end effector, so that when the capstan rotates, one end of the cable winds around said capstan and the other end unwinds, causing movement of said at least one end effector on said linear bearing; and wherein said drive system is operatively connected to said shaft to cause rotation of said capstan, wherein said shaft is surrounded by a dynamic seal as it extends through said housing to seal the pressure chamber of said housing from said vacuum chamber. 5. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly, as described in claim 4, wherein said cable is connected to said at least one end effector by means of a spring and further wherein said cable is pretensioned against said spring. 6. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly, as described in claim 1, wherein said drive system further comprises a controller and encoder mounted in said pressure chamber. 7. A robot assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, said robot assembly comprising: a robot body having a central axis and being fixed in said vacuum chamber, said robot body enclosing a first pressure chamber that is isolated from said vacuum chamber; a first drive system for providing both rotary and translatory motion along and about said axis, said drive system mounted within said first pressure chamber; and a linear motion assembly mounted on said robot assembly within said vacuum chamber and being operatively connected to said first drive system for movement therewith, said linear motion assembly further comprising: a linear bearing mounted within said vacuum chamber; at least one end effector for engaging and supporting a substrate for transport, mounted for linear movement on said linear bearing; a housing mounted on the linear motion assembly and enclosing a second pressure chamber, said second pressure chamber being isolated from said vacuum chamber; and a second drive system mounted within said housing and operatively connected with said at least one end effector to cause movement of said end effector, wherein said second drive system is connected to said end effector through a dynamic seal, to maintain said second pressure chamber in isolation from said vacuum chamber. 8. A robot assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, as described in claim 7, wherein said robot assembly further comprises: at least one bearing rail fixed on said linear motion assembly; at least one bearing block attached to said at least one end effector and mounted for linear motion on said bearing rail; and a labyrinth seal constructed to trap particle contaminants generated by said linear bearing. 9. A robot assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, as described in claim 7, wherein at least said second pressure chamber is maintained substantially at atmospheric pressure. 10. A robot assembly for transporting substrates in vacuum chamber, as described in claim 7, wherein said second drive system further comprises: a capstan mounted on a shaft for rotation on said assembly; a cable helically wound on said capstan and connected at either end to said at least one end effector, so that when the capstan rotates, one end of the cable winds around said capstan and the other end unwinds, causing movement of said at least one end effector on said linear bearing; and wherein said second drive system is operatively connected to said shaft to cause rotation of said capstan, wherein said shaft is surrounded by a dynamic seal as it extends through said housing to seal the second pressure chamber of said housing from said vacuum chamber. 11. A robot assembly for transporting substrates in vacuum chamber, as described in claim 10, wherein said cable is connected to said at least one end effector by means of a spring and further wherein said cable is pretensioned against said spring. 12. A robot assembly for transporting substrates in vacuum chamber, as described in claim 7, wherein said second drive system further comprises a controller and encoder mounted in said second pressure chamber. 13. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, said linear motion assembly comprising: a U-shaped housing having a pair of leg sections and a bridge section, said housing mounted in said vacuum chamber, said housing enclosing a pressure chamber, said pressure chamber being isolated from said vacuum chamber; a first linear bearing mounted on one of said leg sections and second linear bearing separately mounted on the other of said leg sections; first and second end effectors for engaging and supporting a substrate for transport, separately mounted for linear movement on said linear bearings; first and second drive systems separately mounted within said housing and operatively connected with said first and second end effectors respectively to cause movement of said end effectors, wherein said drive systems are connected to said respective end effectors through a dynamic seal, to maintain said pressure chamber in isolation from said vacuum chamber. 14. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, as described in claim 13, wherein said assembly further comprises: a robot body having a central axis and fixed in said vacuum chamber, said robot body enclosing a second pressure chamber that is isolated from said vacuum chamber; a third drive system for providing both rotary and translatory motion along and about said axis, said third drive system mounted within said second pressure chamber; and wherein said linear motion assembly is mounted on said robot body in operative connection to said second drive system for movement therewith. 15. A linear motion assembly for transporting substrates in a vacuum chamber, as described in claim 13, wherein said U-shaped housing is oriented so that one leg is above the other so that one of said end effectors has a plane of motion above the other of said end effectors. 