In an industrial robot having a plurality of arms, each arm is coupled with other elements such as a mounting base, another arm, a robotic hand, and revolved by a motion of a revolving joint. A motor for moving the revolving joint, an encoder for sensing a rotation angle of a drive shaft of the motor, and a control circuit for controlling the driving of the motor are provided on the same arm. A signal cable for transmitting a sensing signal of the encoder to the control circuit is terminated at the control circuit on the same arm. There is no need to align the signal cable from the encoder to a main control circuit provided in the mounting base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An industrial robot, comprising: a plurality of arms coupled by a plurality of revolvable joints; motors provided on respective ones of the arms, each of said arms being movable in response to a driving force imparted by respective one of the motors to each of the revolvable joints; control circuits for controlling the motors each being provided on a same arm of said plurality of arms as a corresponding one of the motors to be controlled thereby; a main control circuit for controlling whole of the industrial robot; control signal cables respectively connected between the main control circuit and the control circuits and for transmitting control signals used for controlling the motors; electric power cables respectively connected between the main control circuit and the control circuits and for supplying electric powers used for driving the motors; signal cables for transmitting signals corresponding to motions of respective of the arms owing to the driving forces of the motors to the control circuits, each of the signal cables being terminated in each of the arms. 2. The industrial robot in accordance with claim 1, further comprising encoders for sensing rotation angles of drive shafts of the motors, each of the encoders being provided on a same one of the arms on which a respective one of the motors is provided. 3. The industrial robot in accordance with claim 2, further comprising: a first revolvable joint for rotationally coupling a mounting base of the industrial robot and a first arm; a second revolvable joint for rotationally coupling the first arm and a second arm; and a third revolvable joint for rotationally coupling the second arm and a robotic hand; and wherein each of the revolvable joints has a slip ring for electrically connecting respective ones of the control signal cables and the electric power cables from the main control circuit, and a coupler for detachably dividing the revolvable joint in two portions; and the control signal cables and the electric power cables are aligned in hollow portion of the revolvable joints and inside of the arms. 