The present invention relates to methods to assay 2-amino-2-deoxy-D-glucose-6-phosphate ketol-isomerase activity. The present invention also relates to methods for drug screening to identify compounds having antimicrobial activity, wherein the compounds have the ability to inhibit the enzymatic activity of a microbial ketol-isomerase. In other embodiments, methods are provided for the identification of compounds that selectively inhibit microbial ketol-isomerase activity compared to the ketol-isomerase activity of the subject being treated for an infection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identification of a compound which inhibits microbial ketol-isomerase activity, comprising the sequential steps of: a) providing: i) a microbial ketol-isomerase, ii) fructose-6-phosphate, iii) glutamine, iv) glutamate dehydrogenase, v) nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, vi) nitro blue tetrazolium chloride, vii) phenazine methosulfate, and viii) a candidate compound; b) preparing a first and a second reaction mixture, wherein said first reaction mixture comprises said microbial ketol-isomerase, said fructose-6-phosphate and said glutamine, and wherein said second reaction mixture comprises said microbial ketol-isomerase, said fructose-6-phosphate, said glutamine and said candidate compound; c) exposing said first and second reaction mixtures to conditions suitable for production of glucosamine-6-phosphate and glutamate; d) inactivating said microbial ketol-isomerase in said first and second reaction mixtures; e) combining said first and second reaction mixtures with said glutamate dehydrogenase, said nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, said nitro blue tetrazolium chloride, and said phenazine methosulfate under conditions suitable for production of a chromogenic product, wherein the quantity of said chromogenic product produced is proportional to activity of said microbial ketol-isomerase; f) comparing ketol-isomerase activities in said first and second reaction mixtures, and g) identifying a candidate compound which inhibits microbial ketol-isomerase activity, wherein the microbial ketol-isomerase activity of said first reaction mixture is greater than the microbial ketol-isomerase activity of said second reaction mixture. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said microbial ketol-isomerase comprises a crude microbial cell lysate, selected from the group consisting of fungal cell lysates and bacterial cell lysates. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said crude microbial cell lysate is selected from the group consisting of Aspergillus cell lysates, Candida cell lysates, Cryptococcus cell lysates, Histoplasma cell lysates, Pneumocystis cell lysates, Rhizopus cell lysates, Saccharomyces cell lysates, Schizosaccharomyces cell lysates, Escherichia cell lysates, Staphylococcus cell lysates and Pseudomonas cell lysates. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said inactivating step is selected from the group consisting of boiling and heating to 70.degree. C. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising a clarifying step after the inactivating step, wherein said clarifying step is selected from the group consisting of centrifugation, filtration and a combination thereof. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising testing said compound which inhibits said microbial ketol-isomerase activity, for antimicrobial activity using a testing means. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said testing means comprises at least one method selected from the group consisting of agar diffusion assays, broth dilution assays, in vivo mouse candidosis assays, and in vivo mouse aspergillosis assays. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: h) providing a second ketol-isomerase selected from the group consisting of plant ketol-isomerases and animal ketol-isomerases; i) preparing a third and a fourth reaction mixture, wherein said third reaction mixture comprises said second ketol-isomerase, said fructose-6-phosphate and said glutamine, and wherein said fourth reaction mixture comprises said second ketol-isomerase, said fructose-6-phosphate, said glutamine and said candidate compound, j) exposing said third and fourth reaction mixtures to conditions suitable for production of glucosamine-6-phosphate and glutamate, k) inactivating said second ketol-isomerase in said third and fourth reaction mixtures, l) combining said third and fourth reaction mixtures with said glutamate dehydrogenase, said nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, said nitro blue tetrazolium chloride, and said phenazine methosulfate under conditions suitable for production of a chromogenic product, wherein the quantity of said chromogenic product is proportional to the activity of said second ketol-isomerase, m) comparing ketol-isomerase activities in said third and fourth reaction mixtures, and n) identifying a compound which preferentially inhibits said microbial ketol-isomerase activity compared to said second ketol-isomerase activity. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said animal ketol-isomerases are mammalian ketol-isomerases. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said mammalian ketol-isomerases are selected from the group consisting of rat ketol-isomerases and human ketol-isomerases. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein said second ketol-isomerase comprises a cell lysate. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein said second ketol-isomerase is purified. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein said second ketol-isomerase is a recombinant ketol-isomerase. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said recombinant ketol-isomerase is a recombinant human ketol-isomerase. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein said inactivating step is selected from the group consisting of boiling and heating to 70.degree. C. 16. The method of claim 8, further comprising a clarifying step after the inactivating step, wherein said clarifying step is selected from the group consisting of centrifugation, filtration and a combination thereof. 17. The method of claim 8, further comprising testing said compound which preferentially inhibits said microbial ketol isomerase activity, for antimicrobial activity using a testing means. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said testing means comprises at least one method selected from the group consisting of agar diffusion assays, broth dilution assays, in vivo mouse candidosis assays, and in vivo mouse aspergillosis assays. 19. A method for identification of a compound which inhibits ketol-isomerase activity, comprising the steps of: a) providing: i) a sample comprising a ketol-isomerase, ii) fructose-6-phosphate, iii) glutamine, iv) glutamate dehydrogenase, v) nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, vi) a redox-sensitive chromogenic substrate, vii) phenazine methosulfate, and viii) a candidate compound; b) preparing a first and a second reaction mixture, wherein said first reaction mixture comprises said sample, said fructose-6-phosphate and said glutamine, and wherein said second reaction mixture comprises said sample, said fructose-6-phosphate, said glutamine and said candidate compound; c) exposing said first and second reaction mixtures to conditions suitable for production of glucosamine-6-phosphate and glutamate; d) inactivating said ketol-isomerase in said first and second reaction mixtures; e) combining said first and second reaction mixtures with said glutamate dehydrogenase, said nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, said tetrazolium salt, and said phenazine methosulfate under conditions suitable for production of a chromogenic product, wherein the quantity of said chromogenic product produced is proportional to activity of said ketol-isomerase; f) measuring the amount of said chromogenic product in said first and second reaction mixtures; and g) identifying a candidate compound which inhibits ketol isomerase activity, wherein the amount of said chromogenic product in said first reaction mixture is greater than the amount of said chromogenic product in said second reaction mixture. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said measuring is accomplished by spectrophotometric analysis. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein said sample is selected from the group consisting of a fungal sample, a bacterial sample, an animal sample and a plant sample. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein said ketol-isomerase is in a form selected from the group consisting of a crude cell lysate, a purified ketol-isomerase and a recombinant ketol-isomerase. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein said redox-sensitive chromogenic substrate is nitro blue tetrazolium chloride. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein said redox-sensitive chromogenic substrate is selected from the group consisting of 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl(-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide and sodium 3,3-[(phenylamino)carbonyl]-3,4-tetrazolium-bis(4-methoxy-6-nitro)benzenes ulfonic acid hydrate. 