An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part including a part support, a sprayer, a part measurer including a digital camera and a display device, all of which are positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures at least two dimensions of the section. The digital camera takes at least one picture of the entire section of the part while the part is being coated and enables a user to accurately determine the cross section of the part to the optimum finished part configuration and size and also detect defects, blemishes or coating irregularities formed on the section. The apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts, the number of defective parts and increases the overall efficiency.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a part measurer including a laser generator, a laser receiver and at least one digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure at least two different planes of a dimension of a section of a part which is supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer while the sprayer applies an amount of coating to the section of the part being coated based on the dimension measurement of the section and the desired dimension of the section. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least two of the digital cameras takes at least one digital picture of a different plane of a section being coated. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein all of the digital cameras take at least one digital picture of a different plane of a section being coated. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least two of the digital cameras takes at least one digital picture of different sections of the part being coated. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein all of the digital cameras take at least one digital picture of different sections of the part being coated. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the digital camera is one of the digital cameras selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, a digital camera and a DVT camera. 8. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the digital camera includes a movable support. 9. The coating apparatus of claim 8, wherein the support is rotatable. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes at least one shield connected to the part support. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes a plurality of sprayers. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser generator is positioned adjacent to one side of the part support and said laser receiver is positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the part support. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes a display device in communication with the part measurer and displays at least one dimension measurement of the part. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the display device displays a digital motion picture of the part as the part is being coated by the sprayer. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the display device displays a digital picture of the part as the part is being coated by the sprayer. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part includes at least one of the parts selected from the group of parts consisting of: round parts, tapered parts, beveled parts, threaded parts and angled parts. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the housings each include a protective device connected to said housing. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein each protective device includes a protective material provider and a protective material receiver, wherein a protective material is attached to the protective material provider and the protective material receiver and moves adjacent to the housing from the protective material provider towards the protective material receiver. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the protective material provider includes a first roller and the protective material receiver includes a second roller. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the protective material includes a transparent film. 23. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the protective material receiver includes an actuator, wherein the protective material receiver is rotatably connected to the actuator. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sprayer includes at least one powder coating sprayer which applies a layer of powder coating to the section of the part being coated. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the powder coating sprayer applies a plurality of layers of powder coating to the section of the part being coated. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sprayer includes at least one electrostatic sprayer, which electrostatically applies at least one layer of coating to the section of the part being coated. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sprayer applies at least one of the coatings to the section of the part selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 28. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a part measurer including at least one digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure at least two different planes of a dimension of a section of a part which is supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer while the sprayer applies an amount of coating to the section of the part being coated based on the dimension measurement of the section and the desired dimension of the section. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein at least two of the digital cameras takes at least one digital picture of a different plane of a section being coated. 31. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein all of the digital cameras take at least one digital picture of a different plane of a section being coated. 32. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein at least two of the digital cameras takes at least one digital picture of different sections of the part being coated. 33. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein all of the digital cameras take at least one digital picture of different sections of the part being coated. 34. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the digital camera is one of the digital cameras selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, a digital camera and a DVT camera. 35. The coating apparatus of claim 28, wherein the digital camera includes a movable support. 36. The coating apparatus of claim 35, wherein the support is rotatable. 37. The apparatus of claim 28, which includes a display device, which displays a digital motion picture of the part as the part is being coated by the sprayer. 38. The apparatus of claim 28, which includes a display device, which displays a digital picture of the part as the part is being coated by the sprayer. 39. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the part includes at least one of the parts selected from the group of parts consisting of: round parts, tapered parts, beveled parts, threaded parts and angled parts. 40. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the housings each include a protective device connected to said housing. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein each protective device includes a protective material provider and a protective material receiver, wherein a protective material is attached to the protective material provider and the protective material receiver and moves adjacent to the housing from the protective material provider towards, the protective material receiver. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the protective material provider includes a first roller and the protective material receiver includes a second roller. 44. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the protective material includes a transparent film. 45. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the protective material receiver includes an actuator, wherein the protective material receiver is rotatably connected to the actuator. 46. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the sprayer includes at least one powder coating sprayer which applies a layer of powder coating to the section of the part being coated. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the powder coating sprayer applies a plurality of layers of powder coating to the section of the part being coated. 48. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the sprayer includes at least one electrostatic sprayer, which electrostatically applies at least one layer of coating to the section of the part being coated. 49. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the sprayer applies at least one of the coatings to the section of the part selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 50. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support adapted to support a part; a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support, the laser generator being operable to project a laser beam onto a section of the part supported by the part support, said laser receiver operable to receive the laser beam to take a dimension measurement of said section of the part; a digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the digital camera is operable to take at least one digital picture of the section of the part being coated; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support, said sprayer operable to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said dimension measurement and said digital picture of the section and the desired dimension of the section of the part; and a display device in communication with the laser receiver and the digital camera, said display device operable to display said dimension measurement and said digital picture of the section of the part being coated. 51. The coating apparatus of claim 50, wherein the digital camera is one of the digital cameras selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, digital camera and a DVT camera. 52. The coating apparatus of claim 50, which includes at least one additional digital camera. 53. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; and a part measurer including a laser generator, a laser receiver and at least one digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein prior to coating the part, the part measurer is operable to measure at least two different planes of a dimension of a section of an uncoated part supported by the part support, compare the measurements to an acceptable range of dimensions for the uncoated part and reject the uncoated part when at least one of the measurements is not within said acceptable range of dimensions. 54. The apparatus of claim 53, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure at least one dimension of at least two different sections of the uncoated part and reject the uncoated part when at least one of the measurements is not within an acceptable range of dimensions associated with each of the sections. 55. The apparatus of claim 53, which includes a display device in communication with the part measurer and displays at least one measurement of the uncoated part. 56. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein the display device displays a digital motion picture of the uncoated part. 57. The method of claim 55, wherein the display device displays a digital picture of the uncoated part. 58. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein the display device prompts a user when the part measurer rejects a part. 