A manipulator for producing a remote center of revolute motion is provided. The manipulator includes a base and a first parallelogram linkage mechanism including a first link pivotally mounted to the base for rotation about a first axis such that the first link moves in a first plane. The manipulator also includes a second parallelogram linkage mechanism including a second link pivotally mounted to the base for rotation about a second axis such that the second link moves in a second plane parallel to the first plane. The first link is pivotal about a third axis perpendicular to the first axis and the second link is pivotal about a fourth axis perpendicular to the second axis. The first and second parallelogram linkages are pivotally connected together by a first connector link and a second connector link. The first and second connector links are parallel to each other and parallel to the first and second axes such that the first and second planes remain parallel as the first and second links respectively rotate about the third and fourth axes. A tool holder is pivotally connected to the first connector link by a first pivot joint and pivotally connected to the second connector link by a second pivot joint such that a tool held therein is pivotable at a remote virtual pivot point about a first remote pivot axis by pivoting the first and second links respectively about the first and second axes and a second remote pivot axis by pivoting the first and second links respectively about the third and fourth axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator for producing a remote center of revolute motion comprising: a base, a first parallelogram linkage mechanism including a first link pivotally mounted to the base for rotation about a first axis such that the first link moves in a first plane, a second parallelogram linkage mechanism including a second link pivotally mounted to the base for rotation about a second axis such that the second link moves in a second plane parallel to the first plane, the first link being pivotal about a third axis perpendicular to the first axis and the second link being pivotal about a fourth axis perpendicular to the second axis, the first and second parallelogram linkages being pivotally connected together by a first connector link and a second connector link, the first and second connector links being parallel to each other and parallel to the first and second axes such that the first and second planes remain parallel as the first and second links respectively rotate about the third and fourth axes, a tool holder pivotally connected to the first connector link by a first pivot joint and pivotally connected to the second connector link by a second pivot joint such that a tool held thereby is pivotable at a remote virtual pivot point about a first remote pivot axis by pivoting the first and second links respectively about the first and second axes and a second remote pivot axis by pivoting the first and second links respectively about the third and fourth axes. 2. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the remote virtual pivot point is offset from a line defined by the first and second pivot joints. 3. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the remote virtual pivot point is offset from a plane containing the third and fourth axes. 4. The manipulator according to claim 2 wherein the second connector link is attached to the first link at a point which is not co-linear with a line defined by the point at which the first link is attached to the base and a point at which the first connector link is connected to the first link and the second connector link is attached to the second link at a point which is not co-linear with a line defined by the point at which the second link is attached to the base and a point at which the first connector link is connected to the second link. 5. The manipulator according to claim 3 wherein the first pivot joint is offset from a line defined by the connections of the first connector link to the first and second links and the second pivot joint is offset from a line defined by the connections of the second connector link to the first and second links. 6. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the first parallelogram linkage mechanism is a four-bar linkage. 7. The manipulator according to claim 6 wherein the second parallelogram linkage mechanism is a four-bar linkage. 8. The manipulator according to claim 7 wherein the first parallelogram linkage mechanism and the second parallelogram linkage mechanism are separate four-bar linkages. 9. The manipulator according to claim 7 wherein the first parallelogram linkage mechanism and the second parallelogram linkage mechanism share a third link that extends parallel to the first and second links and is pivotally mounted to the base and share a fourth link that interconnects the first, second and third links and extends parallel to the base. 10. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the first and second parallelogram linkage mechanisms comprises a parallel gear linkage mechanism. 11. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the first and second parallelogram linkage mechanisms comprises a parallel chain linkage mechanism. 12. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the first and second parallelogram linkage mechanisms comprises a parallel mechanical belt linkage mechanism. 13. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the tool holder can move a tool held thereby linearly in a direction parallel to the line connecting the first and second pivot joints. 14. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the tool holder can move a tool thereby linearly in the direction corresponding to the line connecting the first and second pivot joints. 15. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the tool holder can rotate a tool thereby around a longitudinal axis of the tool. 16. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the tool holder is configured to hold a medical tool. 17. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the tool holder is adapted to sense forces applied to a tool held therein. 18. The manipulator according to claim 17 wherein the forces sensed by the tool holder are displayed for an operator. 19. The manipulator according to claim 17 wherein the forces sensed by the tool holder are reproduced as a force feedback for the operator in a haptic interface device. 20. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the manipulator is adapted to lock the tool holder in a desired position. 21. The manipulator according to claim 1 further including an actuator for driving movement of the first and second parallelogram mechanisms. 22. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the first and second parallelogram mechanisms are adapted to be moved manually by an operator. 23. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the first and second connector links included extended portions which extend beyond the first and second links. 24. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the extended portions of the first connector links extends in a direction parallel to the direction in which the extended portion of the second connector link extends. 25. The manipulator according to claim 24 wherein the extended portions of the first and second connector links extend in respective directions that are parallel to the base. 26. The manipulator according to claim 23 wherein the tool holder is pivotally connected to the extended portions of the first and second connector links. 27. The manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the tool holder includes a cartridge including a carriage for engaging a tool and a guide on which the carriage is movably mounted for translation along a path and a drive unit on which the cartridge is detachably mounted and which includes a drive mechanism drivably engageable with the carriage to move the carriage along the path. 28. The manipulator according to claim 27 further including a support which supports the drive unit for rotation about an axis transverse to the path of the carriage. 29. The manipulator according to claim 28 further including a drive mechanism coupled to the drive unit to rotate the drive unit about the axis. 30. The manipulator according to claim 27 wherein the cartridge includes a dispenser for dispensing a fluid. 31. A manipulator for producing a remote center of motion comprising: a base, a parallelogram linkage mechanism including a first link pivotally connected to the base at a first pivot point for rotation about a first axis and a second link which extends parallel to the first link and is pivotally connected to the base at a second pivot point for rotation about a second axis, a third link pivotally connected to the second link and a fourth link which extends parallel to the third link and is pivotally connected to the second link, and a tool holder link pivotally connected at a third pivot point to the third link and pivotally connected to the fourth link at a fourth pivot point such that a tool held thereby is pivotable at a remote virtual pivot point about a first remote pivot axis wherein the remote pivot point is not both coplanar with the first and second axes and co-linear with a line defined by the first and second pivot points. 32. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the remote virtual pivot point is offset from a line defined by the first and second pivot points. 33. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the remote virtual pivot point is offset from a plane containing the first and second axes. 34. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the fourth link is attached to the second link at a fifth pivot point which is not co-linear with a line defined by the second pivot point and a sixth pivot point at which the third link is connected to the first link. 35. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the first and second links are pivotally connected to a fifth link which extends parallel to a line defined by the first and second pivot points at respective fifth and sixth pivot points and wherein the third pivot point is offset from a line defined by the fifth and sixth pivot points. 36. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the tool holder link can move a tool held thereby linearly in a direction parallel to the line connecting the third and fourth pivot joints. 37. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the tool holder link can move a tool held thereby linearly in the direction corresponding to the line connecting the third and fourth pivot joints. 38. The manipulator according to claim 31 wherein the tool holder link can rotate a tool held thereby around a longitudinal axis of the tool. 