A control system for robots comprising a control unit for generating and controlling the paths of a movement of the moving parts of the robot, a drive unit for generating the control signals for controlling the motors associated to the moving parts of the robot, and an Ethernet-type network for connection of the control unit and the drive unit. An interface module is also provided to connect the control unit to peripheral units and distributed input/output units. The drive unit comprises, in conjunction with a plurality of CPUs that close the control loops of the torques generated by the individual motors, a main CPU responsible for position control in the framework of the drive unit. The latter CPU thus retains knowledge of the overall status of the machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for robots provided with parts that are able to move according to paths determined as a result of the application of control signals to respective motors, comprising: a control unit for generating and controlling the aforesaid paths; a drive unit for generating said control signals for controlling said respective motors according to the paths generated by said control unit, said drive unit configured to receive from said motors position signals of a digital type, preferably generated via encoders; and a dedicated network of the Ethernet type for connection of said control unit with said drive unit. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein said control unit comprises at least two dedicated central processing units, one of which performs a function of supervision and the other a function of generation and control of said paths. 3. The control system of claim 2, wherein said at least two central processing units are connected to one another via a bus or buses of the peripheral component interconnect type. 4. The control system of claim 1, wherein said drive unit operates according to a general feedback scheme, sending said control signals to said respective motors, and receiving from said motors corresponding feedback signals. 5. A The control system of claim 1, wherein said drive unit generates said control signals in the form of digital signals. 6. The control system of claim 5, wherein the digital signals are pulse width modulation signals. 7. The control system of claim 1, wherein said network is a network of the fast Ethernet type. 8. The control system of claim 1, wherein said network is a network with speed of transmission of the order of 100 Mbytes/second. 9. The control system of claim 1, further comprising an interface module for connection of said control unit with control peripherals and/or input/output units. 10. The control system of claim 9, wherein said control unit and said interface module communicate via a bus, such as a CanBus type bus. 11. The control system of claim 1 comprising said control unit connected, via an Ethernet-type network, to a plurality of said drive units. 12. The control system of claim 1, wherein said drive unit is set in the proximity of the respective robot, whilst said control unit is set in a position at a distance from said robot. 13. A control system for robots provided with parts that are able to move according to paths determined as a result of the application of control signals to respective motors, comprising: a control unit for generating and controlling the aforesaid paths; a drive unit for generating said control signals for controlling said respective motors according to the paths generated by said control unit, said drive unit operating according to a general feedback scheme, sending said control signals to said respective motors, and receiving from said motors corresponding feedback signals; and a dedicated network of the Ethernet type for connection of said control unit with said drive unit; and wherein said control signals comprise signals chosen in the set made up of phase signals and voltage signals for said motors, whilst said feedback signals are chosen in the set comprising phase signals, current signals and position signals of the axes of said motors. 14. A control system for robots provided with parts that are able to move according to paths determined as a result of the application of control signals to respective motors, comprising: a control unit for generating and controlling the aforesaid paths; a drive unit for generating said control signals for controlling said respective motors according to the paths generated by said control unit; a dedicated network of the Ethernet type for connection of said control unit with said drive unit; comprising an interface module for connection of said control unit with control peripherals and/or input/output units; and wherein said control peripherals are chosen in the set made up of a programming panel, an operator interface, a terminal, and a system personal computer, whilst said input/output units are chosen in the set made up of units for the generation of conditioning signals for safety, and external control cards, and additional devices and sensors. 15. A control system for robots provided with parts that are able to move according to paths determined as a result of the application of control signals to respective motors, comprising: a control unit for generating and controlling the aforesaid paths; a drive unit for generating said control signals for controlling said respective motors according to the paths generated by said control unit, said drive unit comprising; a first CPU responsible for position control of said motors; and a set of further CPUs, each of which performs the function of closing the control loop of at least one respective motor, the arrangement being such that said first CPU retains knowledge of the global status of the robot; and a dedicated network of the Ethernet type for connection of said control unit with said drive unit. 