A two sided wafer handling end-effector provides for the efficient loading and unloading of wafers into and out of a wafer processing apparatus. Each side of the end-effector includes spaced apart rotatable catch mechanisms between which a wafer is firmly grasped. When the end-effector is positioned beneath the wafer processing apparatus, the catch mechanisms are rotated to an open position and a lifting surface on the catch mechanisms lifts the wafer into the wafer processing apparatus. When the catch mechanisms are in the open position, the wafer is centered on the end-effector by rotatable rocker assemblies that contact the edge of the wafer. As the end-effector is raised into contact with the processing apparatus, the rocker assemblies rotate to a lowered position in the end-effector while arcuate surfaces on the assemblies maintain contact with the wafer edge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece handling end-effector for loading an unprocessed workpiece into a workpiece processing apparatus and for unloading a processed workpiece from the workpiece processing apparatus, the workpiece handling end-effector comprising: an elongate gripping assembly; a first base portion of the elongate gripping assembly configured for attachment to a robotically controlled arm; a second base portion of the elongate gripping assembly spaced apart from the first base portion; a first catch mechanism configured to rotate about a first axis from a closed position to an open position, the first axis coupled to the first base portion; a second catch mechanism configured to rotate about a second axis from a closed position to an open position, the second axis coupled to the second base portion, a control mechanism coupled to the first catch mechanism and to the second catch mechanism and capable of causing the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism to simultaneously rotate from a closed position in which the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism are capable of securing a workpiece to the workpiece handling end-effector to an open position in which the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism do not secure the workpiece to the workpiece handling end-effector; and first and second rocker assemblies located at the first base portion and third and fourth rocker assemblies located at the second base portion, each of the rocker assemblies having an arcuate surface and each of the rocker assemblies located to position the arcuate surface in contact with an edge of a workpiece when such workpiece is positioned on the workpiece handling end-effector, each of the rocker assemblies rotatable about an axis through the respective rocker assembly in response to the workpiece handling end-effector contacting a workpiece processing apparatus, the arcuate surfaces configured to remain in contact with the edge of the workpiece as the rocker assembly rotates about the axis. 2. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein the first base portion comprises a first substantially planar surface and the first catch mechanism is coupled to the first base portion so that in the open position the first catch mechanism is positioned substantially below the first substantially planar surface; and the second base portion comprises a second substantially planar surface and the second catch mechanism is coupled to the second base portion so that in the open position the second catch mechanism is positioned substantially below the second substantially planar surface. 3. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein the first base portion comprises a first substantially planar surface and the second base portion comprises a second substantially planar surface, the workpiece handling end-effector further comprising a first raised ridge extending upwardly from the first substantially planar surface and a second raised ridge extending upwardly from the second substantially planar surface, the first and second raised ridges configured to contact only an area of a surface of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece handling end-effector, the area limited to the outer 2 mm of the surface. 4. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein each of the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism comprises a contacting surface configured to contact an outer portion of a surface of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece handling end-effector, the outer portion limited to an area within 2 mm of the outer periphery of the workpiece. 5. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein each of the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism comprises a concave surface configured to span the edge of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece handling end-effector. 6. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein the control mechanism comprises a drive rod coupled to a first adapter and to a second adapter, the first adapter coupled to the first catch mechanism at a location spaced apart from the first axis and the second adapter coupled to the second catch mechanism at a location spaced apart from the second axis. 7. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein the control mechanism comprises a drive rod having a first worm gear and a second worm gear coupled thereto, the first worm gear operatively coupled to a first castellated surface on the first catch mechanism and the second worm gear operatively coupled to a second castellated surface on the second catch mechanism. 8. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 further comprising a sensor system configured to detect the presence of a workpiece located on the workpiece handling end-effector and to detect the position of the first and second catch mechanisms. 9. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 1 wherein the first and second catch mechanisms each comprise a lifting surface configured, when the first and second catch mechanisms are in the open position, to lift a workpiece out of contact with the first base portion and the second base portion. 10. A workpiece handling end-effector having a first side and a second side, the workpiece handling end-effector comprising: first and second catch mechanisms spaced apart on opposite sides of a workpiece area on the first side, each of the first and second catch mechanisms configured to rotate between a closed orientation capable of securing a workpiece to the first side and an open orientation; third and fourth catch mechanisms spaced apart on opposite sides of a second workpiece area on the second side, each of the third and fourth catch mechanisms configured to rotate between a closed orientation capable of securing a workpiece to the second side and an open orientation; a first drive mechanism coupled to the first and second catch mechanisms and capable of causing the first and second catch mechanisms to simultaneously rotate between the closed and open orientations; and a second drive mechanism coupled to the third and fourth catch mechanisms and capable of causing the third and fourth catch mechanisms to simultaneously rotate between the closed and open orientations. 11. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 10 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms comprises a concave surface configured to contact the edge of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece handling end-effector. 12. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 11 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms further comprises a lifting surface configured, when the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms are in the open position, to lift a workpiece. 13. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 10 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms comprises a contacting surface configured, in the closed position, to contact an outer portion of a surface of a workpiece positioned on the workpiece handling end-effector, the outer portion limited to an area within 2 mm of the outer periphery of the workpiece. 14. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 13 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms further comprises a lifting surface configured, when the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms are in the open position, to lift a workpiece. 15. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 10 further comprising rocker assemblies positioned on each of the first and second sides, the rocker assemblies configured to position a workpiece on the workpiece handling end-effector when the first, second, third, and fourth catch mechanisms are in the open position. 16. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 15 wherein the rocker assemblies are each configured to rotate in response to contacting a workpiece processing apparatus. 17. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 15 wherein the rocker assemblies each comprise an arcuate surface configured to contact a workpiece on the workpiece handling end-effector. 18. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 17 wherein the rocker assemblies are each configured to rotate in response to contacting a workpiece processing apparatus and the arcuate surfaces are configured to remain in contact with a workpiece on the workpiece handling end-effector as the workpiece assemblies rotate. 19. A workpiece handling end-effector for loading an unprocessed workpiece into a workpiece processing apparatus and for unloading a processed workpiece from the workpiece processing apparatus, the workpiece handling end-effector comprising: an elongate gripping assembly; a first base portion of the gripping assembly configured for attachment to a robotically controlled arm; a second base portion of the gripping assembly spaced apart from the first base portion; a first catch mechanism configured to rotate about a first axis from a closed position to an open position, the first axis coupled to the first base portion; a second catch mechanism configured to rotate about a second axis from a closed position to an open position, the second axis coupled to the second base portion; a control mechanism coupled to the first catch mechanism and to the second catch mechanism and capable of causing the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism to simultaneously rotate from a closed position in which the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism are capable of securing a workpiece to the workpiece handling end-effector to an open position in which the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism do not secure the workpiece to the workpiece handling end-effector, the first catch mechanism and the second catch mechanism each further configured to be completely below the workpiece when in the open position; and a first workpiece centering assembly located at the first base portion and a second workpiece centering assembly located at the second base portion. 20. The workpiece handling end-effector of claim 19, wherein the first workpiece centering assembly comprises first and second pivoting rockers having arcuate faces for contacting the edge of the workpiece proximate the first base portion of the gripping assembly, and wherein the second workpiece centering assembly comprises third and fourth pivoting rockers having arcuate faces for contacting the edge of the workpiece proximate the second base portion of the gripping assembly. 21. An end-effector for gripping a semiconductor wafer at its edge, comprising: an elongated gripping assembly having a first end adapted for attachment to a controllable robot, and a second end opposite the first end; a first actuated wafer edge clamping assembly proximate the first end of the gripping assembly, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position; a second actuated wafer edge clamping assembly proximate the second end of the gripping assembly, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position; and first and second elevated wafer supports proximate the first and second ends respectively of the elongate gripping assembly, and configured to support the wafer on its edges with the wafer in a static position atop the first and second elevated wafer supports, wherein the wafer edge clamp assemblies are entirely beneath the wafer when in the open position. 22. The end-effector of claim 21, further comprising a sensor for detecting the presence of a workpiece in the end-effector. 23. A two sided end-effector for gripping two semiconductor wafers at their edges, comprising: an elongated gripping assembly having a first end adapted for attachment to a controllable robot, a second end opposite the first end, and first and second opposed major surfaces; a first actuated wafer edge clamping assembly disposed about the first and second ends of the gripping assembly adjacent the first major surface thereof, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position to clamp a first semiconductor wafer adjacent the first major surface when the first actuated wafer edge clamping assembly is in a wafer clamping position; and a second actuated wafer edge clamping assembly disposed about the first and second ends of the gripping assembly adjacent the second major surface thereof, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position to clamp a second semiconductor wafer adjacent the second major surface when the second actuated wafer edge clamping assembly is in a wafer clamping position. 24. The two-sided end-effector of claim 23, wherein the first and second wafer edge clamping assemblies comprise a first set of clamps that pivot about an axis coupled to the first end of the gripping assembly, and a second set of clamps that pivot about an axis coupled to the second end of the gripping assembly. 25. An end-effector for gripping a semiconductor wafer at its edge, comprising: an elongated gripping assembly having a first end adapted for attachment to a controllable robot, a second end opposite the first end, and first and second opposed major surfaces; a first actuated wafer edge clamping assembly proximate the first end of the gripping assembly adjacent the first major surface thereof, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position; a second actuated wafer edge clamping assembly proximate the second end of the gripping assembly adjacent the first major surface thereof, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position, the first actuated wafer edge clamping assembly and the second actuated wafer edge clamping assembly configured to clamp a first semiconductor wafer therebetween adjacent the first major surface when in the wafer clamp position; a third actuated wafer edge clamping assembly proximate the first end of the gripping assembly adjacent the second major surface thereof, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position; and a fourth actuated wafer edge clamping assembly proximate the second end of the gripping assembly adjacent the second major surface thereof, and moveable between an open position and a wafer clamp position, the third actuated wafer edge clamping assembly and the fourth actuated wafer edge clamping assembly configured to clamp a second semiconductor wafer therebetween adjacent the second opposed major surface when in the wafer clamp position. 