Various reactors for growing thin films on a substrate by subjecting the substrate to alternately repeated surface reactions of vapor-phase reactants are disclosed. In one embodiment, the reactor comprises a reaction chamber. A showerhead plate divides the reaction chamber into upper and lower parts. A first precursor is directed towards the lower half of the reaction chamber and a second precursor is directed towards the upper half of the reaction chamber. The substrate is disposed within the lower half of the reaction chamber. The showerhead plate includes plurality passages such that the upper half is in communication with the lower half of the reaction chamber. In another arrangement, the upper half of the reaction chamber defines a plasma cavity in which in-situ radicals are formed. In yet another arrangement, the reaction chamber includes a shutter plate, which is configured to selectively open and close the passages in the showerhead plate. In other arrangements, the showerhead plate is arranged to modify the local flow patterns of the gases flowing through the reaction chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. A reactor configured to subject a substrate to alternately repeated surface reactions of vapor-phase reactants, comprising: a reaction chamber that defines a reaction space; a substrate that is positioned within the reaction chamber; an plasma generating apparatus having an upper surface and a lower surface, the plasma generating apparatus being positioned in the reaction chamber such that a plasma is generated between the upper surface of the plasma generating apparatus and an upper wall of reaction chamber with no plasma being generated between the lower surface of the plasma generating apparatus and the substrate; a first precursor source that is in communication with the reaction space through an inlet; and a flow guide that is configured to direct the first precursor over the upper surface of the plasma generating apparatus, along a side of the plasma generating apparatus and to a space between the lower surface of the plasma generating apparatus and the substrate, the first precursor flowing substantially in a first direction, which is substantially parallel to the substrate. 2. A reactor as in claim 1, wherein the plasma generating apparatus is configured to produce an inductively coupled plasma. 3. A reactor as in claim 2, wherein the lower surface of the plasma generating apparatus comprises a conducting plate. 4. A reactor as in claim 1, wherein the plasma generating apparatus is configured to produce a capacitively coupled plasma. 5. A reactor as in claim 1, wherein the substrate is positioned on a susceptor. 6. A reactor as in claim 5, wherein the susceptor is positioned within a susceptor lift mechanism. 7. A reactor as in claim 6, wherein the susceptor lift mechanism is configured to seal the reaction chamber during processing. 8. A reactor as in claim 1, further comprising a load lock for moving the substrate in and out of the reaction space. 9. A reactor as in claim 1, further comprising a second precursor source that is in communication with the reaction space through a second inlet. 10. A reactor as in claim 9, wherein the first precursor source comprises a non-metal precursor and the second precursor source comprises a metal precursor. 11. A reactor as in claim 10, wherein the reactor is configured such that the second precursor from the second inlet does not flow over the upper surface of the plasma generating apparatus. 12. A reactor as in claim 11, further comprising a purging gas source. 13. A reactor as in claim 12, wherein the purging gas source is in communication with the reaction space through the second inlet. 