A position sensor for an electronic control pedal is carried by the pedal mounting bracket and includes a linear potentiometer having a slider operable along a substrate in only a linear direction for providing an output voltage representative of slider displacement. A drive arm is connected to the pedal shaft for rotation during pedal movement. A coupler connected to the slider is slidable within a slot in the drive arm for providing the linear displacement through a rotational movement of the shaft. The drive arm has an inner arm in a telescoping connection with an outer arm for setting the drive arm at a desired length after potentiometer calibration. The longitudinal axis of the slot is at an non-zero angle to the longitudinal axis of the drive arm for desensitizing the sensor calibration and adjustment process.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a position sensor with an electronic control pedal wherein the pedal is operable for rotating a shaft carried by a bracket, the method comprising: providing a potentiometer having a substrate and a slider member slidably connected to the substrate for movement along only a linear direction, the slider member making an electrical contact with resistive tracks carried on the substrate for providing an electrical output signal representative of a linear displacement of the slider member along the substrate; attaching the substrate to the bracket; providing a drive arm having telescoping first and second members adjustable along a longitudinal axis of the drive arm for fixing the drive arm at a preselected length, the first arm member having a slot for slidably receiving a coupler therein; connecting the shaft to the second arm member for rotation of the second arm member; telescoping the second arm with the first arm member for extending drive arm along the longitudinal axis; coupling the first arm member with the slider member for providing a sliding movement of the slider member within the slot during a rotating of the drive arm; telescoping the first and second drive arm members to a preselected length dimension of the drive arm for positioning the slider member at a desired location within the slot; securing the first arm member to the second arm member. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the securing comprises welding the first arm member to the second, member for locking the drive arm at the preselected length. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: positioning the slider member at a preselected location along the linear direction on the substrate; measuring the electrical output signal from the potentiometer with the slider member at the preselected location; and rotating the shaft for placing the slider member at a preselected position within the slot while at the preselected location. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the preselected position is within a preselected tolerance band of output signal values. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising inserting a coupler into the slot and engaging the coupler with the slider member. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a longitudinal axis of the slot along which axis the slider member is guided is oriented at a non-zero angle to the longitudinal axis of the drive arm. 7. A method for assembling a position sensor for operation with an electronic control pedal wherein the pedal is operable for rotating a shaft carried by a bracket, the method comprising: providing a potentiometer having a substrate and a slider member slidably connected to the substrate for movement along only a linear direction, the slider member making an electrical contact with an electrically resistive element carried on the substrate for providing an electrical output signal representative of a linear displacement of the slider member along the substrate; attaching the substrate to the bracket; providing a drive arm having a slot; connecting one end of the drive arm to the shaft for rotation by the shaft; and coupling an opposing end the drive arm to the slider member for providing a sliding movement thereto within the slot resulting from a rotating of the drive arm. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the drive arm providing step comprises: the drive arm having telescoping first and second arm members adjustable along a longitudinal axis of the drive arm for fixing the drive arm at a preselected length, the first arm member having the slot therein; connecting the shaft to the second arm member; telescoping the second arm with the first arm member for extending drive arm along the longitudinal axis; coupling the first arm member with the slider member; telescoping the first and second drive arm members to preselected length dimension for the drive arm so as to position the slider member at a desired location within the slot; and securing the first arm member to the second arm member. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the securing comprises welding the first arm member to the second, member for locking the drive arm at the preselected length. 10. The method according to claim 7, further comprising: positioning the slider member at a preselected location along the linear direction on the substrate; measuring the electrical output signal from the potentiometer with the slider member at the preselected location; and rotating the shaft for placing the slider member at preselected position within the slot while at the preselected location. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the preselected position provides an electrical representing the idle setting. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the preselected position is within a preselected tolerance band of output signal values. 13. The method according to claim 7, further comprising inserting a coupler into the slot and engaging the coupler wit the slider member. 14. The method according to claim 7, wherein a longitudinal axis of the slot along which axis the slider member is guided is oriented at a non-zero angle to the longitudinal axis of the drive arm. 