A method and device of treating an irregularly shaped article to prepare the article for painting is provided. The device includes a burner which can produce an adjustable flame tongue which can fit into crevices, openings and other irregular topographical features of an item to be painted or otherwise coated. The burner device further provides means to apply a grafting chemical on a freshly oxidized surface. Further, the invention provides means to colorize treated objects so that they may be recognized as having been treated. In another embodiment, the grafting chemicals may be enhanced with electrolytic solutions such that electrostatic methods of painting may be subsequently employed on the item. In an alternate embodiment, the burner is adapted to spray a powder inside of a generally enclosed flame, and is used in conjunction with chop guns to manufacture glass or carbon fiber preforms. In a preferred embodiment all of the main systems of the present invention are provided with redundancies that allow the continuous operation of the device. Further, the device provides means to run and modify the process either locally or by remote communication means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas burner assembly, comprising: a body portion having a chamber at least partially defined therein, an air/gas inlet that communicates with said chamber, and an open end that communicates with said chamber; a flame jet forming ring that is detachably coupled to said body portion to generally fully enclose said chamber, said flame jet forming ring including at least one port defined therein that, when said flame jet forming ring is coupled to said body portion, communicates with said chamber and is disposed in a predetermined relationship with respect to a longitudinal axis of said body portion; a first coupling member that is adapted to detachably couple said flame jet forming ring to said body portion so that when an air/gas mixture is fed into said chamber through said air/gas inlet, said air/gas mixture is generally evenly distributed throughout said chamber and said at least one port, and substantially all of all said air/gas mixture flows from said air/gas inlet to ambient atmosphere through said chamber and said at least one port; wherein said at least one port forms a generally enclosed shape so that when an air/gas mixture is projected therefrom and ignited, a generally enclosed flame is projected from said burner assembly in a direction that is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of said body portion; and a second coupling member that is adapted to detachably mount said gas burner assembly on an end of arm tool so that when said gas burner assembly is mounted on an end or arm tool and projects a flame therefrom, said gas burner assembly can be moved in a desired pattern over a substrate to flame treat the substrate, said flame jet forming ring being detachable from said body portion without removing said gas burner assembly from the end of arm tool. 2. The gas burner assembly of claim 1 wherein said at least one port is generally parallel with respect to said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 3. The gas burner assembly of claim 2 wherein said at feast one port is parallel with respect to said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 4. The gas burner assembly of claim 1 further comprising a discharge tube having an inlet and an outlet, said discharge tube being oriented in a predetermined way with respect to said longitudinal axis, said outlet being generally peripherally surrounded by said at least one port. 5. The gas burner assembly of claim 4 wherein said discharge tube is generally concentric with said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 6. The gas burner assembly of claim 5 wherein said discharge tube is concentric with said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 7. The gas burner assembly of claim 5 wherein said discharge tube is generally parallel to said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 8. The gas burner assembly of claim 4 wherein said discharge tube is adapted to project an inert gas from its outlet at various velocities to allow the geometry of said enclosed flame to be changed in proportion to the velocity of the inert gas that is projected from said discharge tube. 9. The gas burner assembly of claim 1 wherein said first coupling member comprises a ring member. 10. The gas burner assembly of claim 9 wherein both of said ring member and said body portion include threads that correspond to each other to allow said ring member to couple said flame jet forming ring onto said body portion. 11. The gas burner assembly of claim 1 further comprising means for reducing the backflow of an air/gas mixture from said at least one port into said chamber. 12. The gas burner assembly of claim 11 wherein said means for reducing comprises a screen member that is adapted to fit a cross-sectional area of said chamber. 13. The gas burner assembly of claim 12 wherein said screen member is disposed in said chamber at said open end. 14. The gas burner assembly of claim 1 wherein said at least one port is generally circular in shape. 15. The gas burner assembly of claim 14 wherein said at least one port is generally concentric with said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 16. The gas burner assembly of claim 14 wherein said at least one port comprise a plurality of individual flame jet pouts each of which communicates with said chamber when said flame jet forming ring is attached to said body portion. 17. The gas burner assembly of claim 1 wherein said body portion and said flame jet forming ring are formed from a lightweight material to reduce the weight of said gas burner assembly and thereby minimize deflection of the end of arm tool when said gas burner assembly is mounted thereon. 