A milking system including apparatus and a method for facilitating the milking of a large number of animals in a milking parlor. Milking stalls in the parlor are arranged to provide a one way-path of travel through the parlor with a controlled entry and exit to facilitate pre- and post-milking treatment of the animals. The milking stalls are separated by an operator's pit. A platform or person mover disposed in the pit carries an operator from one milking stall to another wherein the proximity of a working side of the platform to the stalls allows the operator to have direct access to an animal without leaving the platform. Movement of the platform to a given stall is controlled by a controller acting responsive to sensors that indicate the occurrence of an event at the given stall requiring the operator's attention.
Claims Having described the invention in detail, what is claimed as new is: 1. A milking system comprising: a) a milking parlor having an entry stall at one end and an exit stall at an opposite end through which entry and exit stalls all of the animals pass, each of the entry and exit stalls being of a size sufficient to accommodate a single animal and each of the entry and exit stalls configured to detain a single animal therein prior to passing through; and b) a plurality of milking stalls arranged at spaced intervals along a one-way path of travel through the milking parlor from the entry stall to the exit stall. 2. A milking system as in claim 1 including entry stall gates operable for detaining a single animal in the entry stall prior to the passage of the animal through the entry stall and the entry of the animal onto the one-way path. 3. A milking system as in claim 2 wherein: a) the milking stalls are arranged in two parallel rows separated by an aisle, each of the milking stalls opening out of and into a corridor extending along side each of the two rows of milking stalls; and b) the entry stall gates being selectively operable to provide an opening from the entry stall to one or the other of the corridors. 4. A milking system as in claim 1 including means at the entry stall for performing a pre-dipping procedure on the detained animal. 5. A milking system as in claim 1 wherein at least one of the entry stall and exit stall including means to permit respectively a pre- or a post-dipping procedure on a detained animal. 6. A milking system as in claim 1 wherein: a) the milking stalls are arranged in two parallel rows separated by an elongated pit extending substantially the length of the parallel rows; b) a person mover in the pit that is movable substantially the full length of the pit from one end to another; c) the person mover including a generally rectangular platform for supporting a standing operator, the platform having a working side facing at least one of the parallel rows and the working side extending out to a wall of the pit and extending parallel to the pit wall to allow the operator to service an animal in a milking stall in the at least one of the parallel rows; and d) the proximity of the working side to the pit wall providing a safety means for preventing the standing operator from stepping or falling off the working side of the platform and into the pit. 7. A milking system as in claim 6 wherein the platform has two working sides extending to opposite walls of the pit so the operator is able to access an animal in the milking stalls in each of the parallel rows and the proximity of each working side to an adjacent pit wall providing a safety means for preventing the standing operator from stepping or falling off either of the working sides and into the pit. 8. A milking system as in claim 6 wherein the person mover includes two of the platforms movable in parallel paths, each of the platforms having one working side facing one of the parallel rows of milking stalls and extending to a wall of the pit. 9. A milking system as in claim 6 including: a) a sensor located at each milking stall adapted to issue a signal on the occurrence of one of the entry of an animal to be milked into a milking stall, the disengagement of a milking cup from an animal in the milking stall and the completion of the milking of an animal in the milking stall; and b) means operating responsive to the signal to move the platform to the milking stall that is the source of the signal. 10. A milking system as in claim 1 wherein: a) the milking parlor has two parallel corridors, which together with the entry stall and the exit stall define the one-way path of travel through the parlor; b) the plurality of milking stalls being arranged at spaced intervals in two rows, one row extending alongside each corridor; c) each of the milking stalls having selectively operable entrance and exit gates for directing an animal in a one-way direction into a milking stall and then back into the corridor; and d) the entrance gates being components of the entry stall and the entrance gates being selectively operable to provide an opening from the entry stall into one or the other of the corridors. 11. A milking system comprising: a) a plurality of milking stalls arranged in two parallel rows separated by an elongated pit, each stall being accessible from the pit and the stalls being at an elevated level relative to the floor level of the pit; b) a generally rectangular platform disposed in the elongated pit, the platform being movable substantially the full length of the pit from one end to the other and having opposite working sides extending to opposite side walls of the pit thereby allowing an operator standing on the platform to have direct access to the animals in either of the rows for connecting the animals to a milking machine without leaving the platform; and c) drive means for moving and stopping the platform adjacent a selected one of the milking stalls. 12. A milking system as in claim 11 comprising: a) a sensor located at each milking stall adapted to issue a signal on the occurrence of one of the entry of an animal to be milked into a milking stall, the disengagement of a milking cup from an animal in the milking stall or the completion of the milking of an animal in the milking stall; and b) the drive means operating responsive to the signal to move the platform to the milking stall that is the source of the signal. 13. A milking system as in claim 11 wherein the drive means comprises: a) a guide slot opening through the floor of the pit, the slot extending substantially the length of the pit; b) a driven element traveling in the guide slot; c) a member extending down from the platform and into the guide slot, the member being attached to the driven element for moving the platform along the pit; and d) a protective flexible cover for the opening of the slot, the cover being fixed against longitudinal movement with respect to the pit floor and being free to move vertically with respect to the pit floor to accommodate the passage of the member and thereafter being returned to a position covering the slot after passage of the member. 14. A milking apparatus as in claim 13 including a displacement means for lifting the protective cover from the slot to accommodate the passage of the member and thereafter returning the cover to the slot after passage of the member, the displacement means comprising a set of roller pairs depending from the underside of the platform with the flexible cover being passed under and over the rollers of each pair to respectively lift and lower the protective cover as the platform is moved along the slot. 15. A milking system comprising: a) a plurality of milking stalls arranged in two parallel rows on either side of a central aisle, each of the milking stalls being accessible from the aisle; b) a person mover movable from one end of the aisle to the other; c) a sensor located at each milking stall adapted to issue a signal on the occurrence of one of the entry of an animal to be milked into a milking stall, the disengagement of a milking cup from an animal in the milking stall and the completion of the milking of an animal in the milking stall; and d) a controller acting responsive to the signal to cause the movement of the person mover to the milking stall that is the source of the signal. 16. A milking system as in claim 15 including: a) a display and an operator activated input on the person mover, both the display and the input being operatively connected to the controller; and b) the controller operating to place information on the display pertaining to the next destination of the person mover and the controller delaying the movement of the person mover until after viewing of the information on the display has been acknowledged by activation of the operator activated input. 17. A milking system as in claim 15 wherein: a) the aisle is a pit having a floor disposed below the level of the milking stalls; b) the person mover including a generally rectangular platform having a width that extends substantially the full width of the pit allowing an operator standing on the platform to have direct access from the platform to the animals in the milking stalls in both rows; and c) means for moving the platform along the pit and stopping the platform adjacent one of the milking stalls selected independently of an operator input. 18. A method of operating a milking parlor comprising: a) providing a plurality of milking stalls arrange in two parallel rows separated by a central aisle; b) sensing an event occurring at any one of the stalls including the entry of a new animal into a milking stall, a fault occurring during the milking of an animal and a diminishing milk flow from the animal being milked; c) issuing a signal indicative of the event; and d) transporting a human operator along the aisle to the location of the event in response to the signal. 19. A method as in claim 18 comprising: a) detaining an animal at an entry stall to the milking parlor and performing a pre-dipping procedure on the animal to prepare the animal for milking; and b) selectively operating gates at the entry stall for directing the detained animal to one or another of the parallel rows. 20. A method as in claim 19 including a person mover for transporting a human operator along the aisle the person mover having a display and an input station, the method further comprising: a) displaying to a human operator information regarding the next destination of the person mover; and b) delaying the movement of the person mover to that location until after an acknowledging input from the human operator. 21. A milking system comprising: a) a milking parlor having an entry and an exit stall; b) a plurality of milking stalls arranged at spaced intervals along a one-way path through the milking parlor from the entry stall to the exit; c) two parallel corridors which together with the entry stall and the exit stall define the one-way path of travel through the parlor; d) the plurality of milking stalls being arranged at spaced intervals in two rows, one row extending alongside each corridor; e) each of the milking stalls having selectively operable entrance and exit gates for directing an animal in a one-way direction into a milking stall and then back into the corridor; and f) the gates being components of an entry stall and being selectively operable to provide an opening from the entry stall into one or the other of the corridors. 22. A method of operating a milking parlor comprising: a) arranging a plurality of milking stalls in the parlor in two parallel rows separated by a central aisle, each of the rows extending alongside an exterior corridor in a one-way path of travel, the paths of travel having a common entry stall at one end and a common exit stall at an opposite end; b) selectively operating gates at the entry stall for directing an animal to one or another of the corridors; c) selectively opening entrance and exit gates in each of the stalls for directing an animal in a one-way path from the corridor into a milking stall and from the milking stall into the corridor; d) detaining a single animal at one of the entry and exit stalls prior to passing through; and e) performing one of a pre-dipping and post-dipping process on the detained animal. 23. A method as in claim 22 comprising: a) issuing a signal from a milking stall in response to one of the entry of an animal into a milking stall, the disengagement of a milking cup from an animal in the milking stall and the completion of the milking of an animal in the milking stall; and b) moving a person mover along the aisle in responsive to the signal and stopping the person mover adjacent the stall that is the source of the signal. 