The invention provides an input device for robotic surgical techniques and other applications. The input device has a handle supported by a linkage having joints with a redundant degree of freedom, with the joints being movable with at least one more degree of freedom than the handle. At least one joint of the linkage is actively driven to prevent the linkage from approaching singularities of the joint system, motion limits of the joints, or the like, and also to drive the linkage toward a freely articulatable configuration. In one embodiment, a robotic master controller includes an arm assembly supporting a gimbal having such a redundant linkage, with the arm primarily positioning the gimbal in a three dimensional controller workspace and the gimbal coupling the arm to the handle with four rotational degrees of freedom. One or more additional degrees of freedom may also be provided for actuation of the handle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An input device comprising: a base; a handle manually movable with N degrees of freedom relative to the base; a linkage coupling the handle to the base, the linkage having at least N+1 degrees of freedom, the linkage comprising a plurality of joints including at least one driven joint, the joints defining a nullspace of alternative linkage configurations during the manual movement of the handle; a sensor system sensing a configuration of the joints during the manual movement of the handle; a drive system drivingly engaging the at least one driven joint; a processor coupled to the drive system, the processor directing movement of the at least one driven joint along the nullspace in response to the sensed joint configuration during the manual movement of the handle. 2. The input device of claim 1, wherein the processor directs the movement of the at least one driven joint so as to drive the linkage away from a motion-inhibiting configuration of the linkage. 3. The input device of claim 2, wherein the drive system articulates the driven joint when the handle moves the linkage toward a singularity of the linkage. 4. The input device of claim 2, wherein the processor directs movement of the at least one driven joint so as to avoid the singularity. 5. A master-slave robotic surgical system comprising: a master controller comprising: a platform; a handle rotatable about three axes relative to the platform and translatable along three axes relative to the platform; a linkage supporting the handle relative to the platform, the linkage having a joint system including at least one driven joint, the joint system defining seven degrees of freedom, the seven degrees of freedom including four axes of rotation; a sensor system coupled to the joint system to measure motion about at least one of the joint axes of rotation; a drive system drivingly engaging the driven joint; and a processor coupling the sensor system to the drive system so that the drive system actuates the driven joint while the handle is manually repositioned to avoid a motion-inhibited configuration of the joint system; and a slave linkage coupled to the master, the slave linkage articulating with 6 degrees of freedom in response to the manual repositioning of the handle. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to move the driven joint away from at least one singularity of the joint system. 7. A robotic method, the method comprising: manually moving a handle having N-1 degrees of freedom in a controller workspace, the handle coupled to a base by a linkage having N degrees of freedom so that a plurality of joints of the linkage articulate when the handle moves, the linkage defining a nullspace of alternative joint configurations at each position of the handle relative to the base during the manual movement of the handle; sensing articulation of the joints when the handle moves; driving at least one of the joints in response to the sensed articulation of the joints, wherein the driving step moves the linkage away from a motion-inhibiting configuration of the linkage along the nullspace without driving the handle in the controller workspace during the manual movement of the handle; and robotically driving a manipulator linkage in N-1 degrees of freedom in response to the manual movement of the handle. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the driving step moves the linkage away from a singularity of the linkage. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the driving step moves the linkage toward a freely-movable configuration of the linkage. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the joints of the linkage in the freely movable configuration define a plurality of substantially orthogonal axes. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the joints of the linkage in the freely movable configuration define substantially orthogonal yaw, pitch, and roll rotational axes of the handle. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the handle moves with 6 degrees of freedom. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising calculating alternative linkage joint configurations of the nullspace for a position of the handle, wherein the at least one joint is driven along the calculated alternative joint configurations of the nullspace. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein the at least one driven joint is driven away from a handle motion inhibiting configuration caused by at least one member selected from the group consisting of a singularity of the linkage, a joint articulation limitation of the linkage, a workspace limitation, and interference with a hand grasping the handle. 15. The method of claim 7, further comprising allowing at least one of the joints to actuate passively when the handle moves. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one passive joint is disposed between the handle and the driven joint. 