An apparatus and methods of using the same for transferring functional blocks to a substrate. In one exemplary embodiment, a plurality of functional blocks is deposited in a relocating tool having a first plurality of receptor sites. A transfer tool having a plurality of nozzles in aligning with the first plurality of receptor sites removes the plurality of functional blocks from the relocating tool. The transfer tool then deposits the plurality of functional blocks into a second plurality of receptor sites in a substrate. The receptor sites comprise adhesives for securing the functional blocks. Vibration and water are used to facilitate proper delivery of the functional blocks to the receptor sites.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate comprising: depositing a plurality of functional blocks into a relocating tool having a first plurality of receptor sites that receive said plurality of functional blocks; and coupling a transfer tool to said relocating tool to transfer said plurality of functional blocks from said relocating tool to a substrate, said transfer tool having a plurality of nozzles aligning with said first plurality of receptor sites wherein said plurality of nozzles attach to said plurality of functional blocks. 2. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 1 further comprising vibrating said transfer tool to facilitate said transfer. 3. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 2 wherein said method further comprises: applying vacuum to said plurality of nozzles to secure said plurality of functional blocks during said transfer. 4. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 2 comprising: depositing adhesives into said second plurality of receptor sites prior to depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 5. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 4 comprising: vibrating said plurality of nozzles while depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 6. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 2 comprising: depositing water droplets over each of said second plurality of receptor sites prior to depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 7. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 2 comprising: coating a layer of an adhesive material over said substrate prior to depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 8. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a second plurality of receptor sites aligning with said plurality of nozzles and wherein said method further includes depositing one of said plurality of functional blocks into one of said second plurality of receptor sites. 9. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 1 comprising: curing said substrate having said plurality of functional blocks deposited therein. 10. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 1 wherein said curing comprises using a UV lamp to cure said substrate. 11. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 1 wherein said depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said relocating tool is done with FSA. 12. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 11 comprising: depositing water droplets over each of said second plurality of receptor sites prior to depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 13. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 12 comprising: submerging said substrate in water such that each of said second plurality of receptor sites is beneath said water while depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 14. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 12 comprising: vibrating said plurality of nozzles while depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 15. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 14 comprising: vibrating said plurality of nozzles while depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 16. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 15 comprising: submerging said substrate in water such that each of said second plurality of receptor sites is beneath said water while depositing said plurality of functional blocks into said second plurality of receptor sites. 17. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 16 wherein said method further comprises using a force to press said plurality of functional blocks into said substrate. 18. A method of depositing functional blocks into a substrate as in claim 1 wherein said substrate is made out of a thermoplastic or thermoset material and wherein said method further comprising: heating said substrate to above a softening limit of said material to soften said substrate prior to said transfer. 