A wafer holder for supporting a wafer within a CVD processing chamber includes a vertically moveable lift ring configured to support the bottom peripheral surface of the wafer, and an inner plug having a top flat surface configured to support the wafer during wafer processing. The lift ring has a central aperture configured to closely surround the inner plug. When a wafer is to be loaded onto the wafer holder, the lift ring is elevated above the inner plug. The wafer is loaded onto the lift ring in the elevated position. Then, the lift ring is maintained in the elevated position for a time period sufficient to allow the wafer temperature to rise to a level that is sufficient to significantly reduce or even substantially prevent thermal shock to the wafer when the wafer is brought into contact with the inner plug. The lift ring is then lowered into surrounding engagement with the inner plug. This is the wafer processing position of the wafer holder.
Claims We claim: 1. A susceptor for supporting a wafer within a reaction chamber, comprising: an inner plug having a generally horizontal top surface; a lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to support a bottom outer peripheral surface of a wafer, the upper wafer support surface forming an unbroken encircling portion, the lift ring having a central aperture positioned such that the lift ring contacts substantially only a peripheral portion of a wafer supported thereon, the central aperture being sized and shaped to receive the inner plug, the lift ring having a lowered position in which the wafer support surface is substantially coplanar with the top surface of the inner plug, the lift ring having an elevated position in which the wafer support surface is positioned above the top surface of the inner plug such that a wafer supported on the lift ring substantially does not contact the inner plug; and a lift device for moving the lift ring between its lowered position and its elevated position wherein the inner plug and the lift ring have interconnecting features to prevent relative rotation of the inner plug with respect to the lift ring when the lift ring is in its lowered position. 2. The susceptor of claim 1, wherein when the lift ring is in the elevated position, the wafer support surface of the lift ring is above the top surface of the inner plug by a distance sufficient to substantially prevent heat conduction between the inner plug and a wafer supported on the lift ring. 3. The susceptor of claim 1, wherein the top surface of the inner plug is substantially flat. 4. The susceptor of claim 1, wherein the upper wafer support surface of the lift ring is substantially flat and horizontal. 5. The susceptor of claim 1, wherein the lift ring has a ledge on an inner radial surface of the lift ring, a top surface of the ledge being the wafer support surface of the lift ring. 6. The susceptor of claim 1, wherein the lift ring is circular. 7. The susceptor of claim 1, further comprising an inner plug lift device configured to vertically move the inner plug. 8. The susceptor of claim 7, wherein the inner plug lift device comprises one or more generally vertical elements configured to contact a lower surface of the inner plug. 9. A susceptor for supporting a wafer within a reaction chamber, comprising: an inner plug having a generally horizontal top surface; a lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to support a bottom outer peripheral surface of a wafer, the upper wafer support surface forming an unbroken encircling portion, the lift ring having a central aperture positioned such that the lift ring contacts substantially only a peripheral portion of a wafer supported thereon, the central aperture being sized and shaped to receive the inner plug, the lift ring having a lowered position in which the wafer support surface is substantially coplanar with the top surface of the inner plug, the lift ring having an elevated position in which the wafer support surface is positioned above the top surface of the inner plug such that a wafer supported on the lift ring substantially does not contact the inner plug; and a lift device for moving the lift ring between its lowered position and its elevated position; wherein the inner plug has an outer radial edge having a plurality of lift ring support portions, each of the lift ring support portions having an upper surface, at least a portion of the upper surface of each of the lift ring support portions extending below the top surface of the inner plug and providing support to the lift ring when the lift ring is in its lowered position. 10. The susceptor of claim 9, wherein the upper surfaces of the lift ring support portions of the inner plug slant generally downward and radially outward from the top surface of the inner plug to a bottom surface of the inner plug. 11. The susceptor of claim 9, wherein at least a portion of the upper surface of each of the lift ring support portions of the inner plug is generally horizontal. 12. The susceptor of claim 9, wherein the plurality of lift ring support portions of the inner plug consists of three lift ring support portions. 13. The susceptor of claim 9, wherein the lift ring support portions are separated by recesses. 14. The susceptor of claim 9, wherein the lift ring has a bottom surface having a plurality of lower recesses sized and shaped to receive the lift ring support portions of the inner plug when the lift ring is in said lowered position, the lower surface of the lift ring also having a plurality of anti-rotation members between the lower recesses of the lift ring, the anti-rotation members being configured to be received within recesses of the inner plug when the lift ring is in said lowered position, the recesses of the inner plug interposed between the lift ring support portions of the inner plug. 15. A susceptor for supporting a wafer within a reaction chamber, comprising: an inner plug having a generally horizontal top surface; a lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to support a bottom outer peripheral surface of a wafer, the upper wafer support surface forming an unbroken encircling portion, the lift ring having a central aperture positioned such that the lift ring contacts substantially only a peripheral portion of a wafer supported thereon, the central aperture being sized and shaped to receive the inner plug, the lift ring having a lowered position in which the wafer support surface is substantially coplanar with the top surface of the inner plug, the lift ring having an elevated position in which the wafer support surface is positioned above the top surface of the inner plug such that a wafer supported on the lift ring substantially does not contact the inner plug; and a lift device for moving the lift ring between its lowered position and its elevated position; wherein the inner plug supports the lift ring, the lift device comprising a support spider below the inner plug and the lift ring, the spider having a plurality of support arms extending from a centerpoint radially outward and upward to support the inner plug and lift ring, the spider being rotatable about a vertical axis passing through the center of the susceptor, said spider being rotatable between a first position in which the support arms are positioned to contact the lift ring and a second position in which the support arms are positioned to contact the inner plug, the spider being vertically moveable in said first position to move the lift ring to said elevated position. 16. A susceptor for supporting a wafer within a reaction chamber, comprising: an inner plug having a generally horizontal top surface; a lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to support a bottom outer peripheral surface of a wafer, the upper wafer support surface forming an unbroken encircling portion, the lift ring having a central aperture positioned such that the lift ring contacts substantially only a peripheral portion of a wafer supported thereon, the central aperture being sized and shaped to receive the inner plug, the lift ring having a lowered position in which the wafer support surface is substantially coplanar with the top surface of the inner plug, the lift ring having an elevated position in which the wafer support surface is positioned above the top surface of the inner plug such that a wafer supported on the lift ring substantially does not contact the inner plug; and a lift device for moving the lift ring between its lowered position and its elevated position; wherein the inner plug includes lower recesses for receiving upper ends of support arms of a rotatable support spider. 17. An apparatus for supporting a wafer within a reaction chamber, comprising: an inner portion having a top wafer support surface configured to support a bottom central surface of a wafer; a lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to extend generally along a peripheral edge of a wafer and support a bottom outer peripheral surface of the wafer, wherein the lift ring is configured to closely surrounds the inner portion, and wherein the upper wafer support surface of the lift ring has an inner edge and an outer edge, the upper wafer support surface being radially beveled such that it slopes downward from the outer edge to the inner edge and, wherein the lift ring has a lowered position in which a wafer positioned on or above the lift ring is supported by the top wafer support surface of the inner portion, the lift ring also having a raised position in which a wafer supported on the wafer support surface of the lift ring is raised above the top wafer support surface of the inner portion such that the wafer does not contact the inner portion; a lift device for moving the lift ring vertically with respect to the inner portion; and an outer ring positioned to surround the lift ring in the lowered position thereof, wherein the outer ring has an inner ledge having an upper surface configured to support a lower surface of the lift ring; wherein the inner portion and the lift ring have interconnecting features to prevent relative rotation of the inner portion with respect to the lift ring when the lift ring closely surrounds the inner portion. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the top wafer support surface of the inner portion is generally horizontal and flat. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein when the lift ring is in the raised position, a wafer supported on the wafer support surface of the lift ring is above the inner portion by a distance sufficient to substantially prevent heat conduction between the inner portion and the wafer. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a surrounding vertical wall radially exterior of the wafer support surface of the lift ring, the surrounding vertical wall configured to surround a wafer supported on the wafer support surface of the lift ring. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the surrounding vertical wall is integrally formed with the wafer support surface of the lift ring. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the surrounding vertical wall has a circular periphery. 23. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the outer ring further comprises a surrounding vertical wall formed integrally with the inner ledge and positioned radially exterior of the wafer support surface of the lift ring when the lower surface of the lift ring is supported by the upper surface of the inner ledge of the outer ring. 24. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the lift device comprises one or more generally vertical elements configured to contact a lower surface of the lift ring. 25. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the lift ring is circular. 26. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the wafer support surface of the lift ring is configured to contact a wafer supported on the lift ring only within the exclusion zone of the wafer. 27. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said lift ring forms an unbroken encircling portion. 28. A reactor for processing a wafer, comprising a susceptor and a lift device, the susceptor comprising: an inner plug having a top surface; and a lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to support a bottom outer peripheral surface of a wafer, wherein the upper wafer support surface forms an unbroken encircling portion, the lift ring having a central aperture positioned such that the lift ring contacts substantially only a peripheral portion of a wafer supported thereon, the central aperture being sized and shaped to receive the inner plug, the lift ring having a lowered position in which the upper wafer support surface is substantially coplanar with the top surface of the inner plug, the lift ring having an elevated position in which the upper wafer support surface is above the top surface of the inner plug; wherein the lift device is configured to move the lift ring between its lowered position and its elevated position, the inner plug and the lift ring having interconnecting features to prevent relative rotation of the inner plug with respect to the lift ring when the lift ring is in its lowered position. 29. The reactor of claim 28, wherein when the lift ring is in the elevated position, the upper wafer support surface of the lift ring is above the top surface of the inner plug by a distance sufficient to substantially prevent heat conduction between the inner plug and a wafer supported on the lift ring. 30. The reactor of claim 28, wherein the top surface of the inner plug is substantially flat and horizontal. 31. The reactor of claim 28, wherein the top surface of the inner plug is concave with respect to a wafer supported thereon. 32. The reactor of claim 28, wherein the top surface of the inner plug includes one or more grooves. 33. The reactor of claim 32, wherein the grooves form a grid on the top surface of the inner plug. 34. A support spider for supporting a susceptor, the susceptor comprising an inner plug and a lift ring, the inner plug having a top surface, the lift ring having an upper wafer support surface configured to support a bottom outer peripheral surface of a wafer, the lift ring having a central aperture positioned such that the lift ring contacts substantially only a peripheral portion of a wafer supported thereon, the central aperture being sized and shaped to receive the inner plug, the lift ring having a lowered position in which the wafer support surface is generally at the same vertical position as the top surface of the inner plug, the lift ring having an elevated position in which the wafer support surface is above the top surface of the inner plug such that a wafer supported on the lift ring substantially does not contact the inner plug, the inner plug configured to support the lift ring when the lift ring is in the lowered position, the support spider comprising: a generally vertical shaft having a vertical center axis; a plurality of support arms extending from said shaft, said support arms comprising generally horizontal portions and generally vertical portions, said horizontal portions extending generally radially outward from said shaft to outer ends, said vertical portions extending generally upward from said outer ends of said horizontal portions, said vertical portions having upper ends configured to be underneath said lift ring when said vertical center axis of said shaft is generally aligned with a vertical center axis of said susceptor; and intermediate support members extending generally vertically from said horizontal portions, said intermediate support members positioned radially inward of said vertical portions and having upper ends positioned below said upper ends of said vertical portions; wherein said spider is configured to be positioned underneath said susceptor such that said spider can be rotated about said center axis of said shaft and vertically displaced, wherein when said center axes of said shaft and said susceptor are generally aligned, said spider has a first rotational position in which an upward displacement of said spider of a first distance causes said vertical portions to lift said lift ring above said inner plug without said inner plug being lifted, and in which an upward displacement of said spider beyond said first distance causes said intermediate support members to lift said inner plug while said lift ring is supported by said vertical portions, said spider having a second rotational position in which an upward displacement of said spider causes said vertical portions to lift said inner plug with said lift ring resting upon said inner plug. 35. The support spider of claim 34, wherein said upper ends of said vertical portions are configured to be received within recesses in a lower surface of said inner plug, such that rotation of said spider about said center axis of said shaft causes the susceptor to rotate. 36. The support spider of claim 34, wherein said plurality of support arms includes three support arms. 