A weather resistant modular sensor and computing platform reduces costs and enhances versatility of sensor systems. Rapidly evolving electronic technology results in hyper-obsolescence wherein sensor systems that are state of the art technology when designed, fall behind the art quickly as new transducers, batteries and components are developed. A cylindrical shaped modular system provides an architecture for up-grading sensors, batteries, special modules, communications, and control. A modular architecture extends the life cycle of a system and avoids hyper-obsolescence and the requirement to design a complete new system to incorporate new technology. Modularity and low cost manufacturing methods enable the practical definition of a cylindrical computer. The cylinder shaped enclosures have on their ends a common connection interface to which modules may be added. This provides a long system life cycle and wide ranging versatility. The size of the platform is not restricted. Larger systems are capable of supporting more sophisticated processing. A scaled up version of the modular platform provides an outdoor weather resistant community computing server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular weather resistant computer platform comprising: (a) a parent device comprising a data processing means wherein computer instructions are executed, and a data storage means for storage of a control program and data, and (b) at least one slave that monitors events and activates a radio frequency communication link to contact the parent device, said parent device operating as a master in a communications protocol with said slave wherein said slave is requesting at least one service from said master, wherein said platform provides communications and computing services to at least one residence or business. 2. The modular weather resistant computer platform of claim 1 wherein the at least one service is a request to said parent device requesting assistance to transport a data signal to a network not available to said slave. 3. The modular weather resistant computer platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one service is a request for said parent device to provide updated software for a slave computer program. 4. The modular weather resistant computer platform of claim 1 wherein the at least one service is a request for said parent device to provide a direct connection between said slave and a remote storage server. 5. The modular weather resistant computer platform of claim 1 wherein the at least one service is a request for said parent device to download any stored information addressed to said slave. 6. The modular weather resistant computer platform of claim 1 wherein the at least one service is a request for said parent device to provide a list of capabilities available from said parent device to which said slave may have access. 7. An environmentally sealed communications access sewer comprising a server which is environmentally sealed and which accepts transmissions from known and unknown wireless computing platforms that are soliciting services, wherein solicitations are acknowledged by said access server and said server provides at least one service. 8. The communications access server of claim 7 wherein said at least one service is to accept said wireless computing platforms' default protocol and provide a protocol bridge to enable said wireless computing platforms to interact with networks that will not operate with said wireless computing platforms' default protocol. 9. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is a connection to high speed Internet resources. 10. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is an interactive spread sheet application program. 11. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is an interactive word processing application program. 12. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is an Interactive Internet browser. 13. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is a connection to a digital radio source. 14. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is a connection to a CODEC coder/decoder to interface an analog telephone. 15. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is to activate an alarm monitoring software program. 16. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is to connect with a video entertainment stream. 17. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is a list of available services. 18. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is a connection to a cellular telephone network. 19. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is a connection to a personal communications network. 20. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is to be added to a local area network as peer. 21. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is to download software. 22. The communications access server of claim 8 wherein said at least one service is to request a stronger wireless signal. 