A method for remotely accessing packages suspect of containing hazardous devices. The method includes using a continuous stream of high velocity abrasive particles and/or fluid(s) created in-situ while attached to a remotely or autonomously operated vehicle to breach the exterior surface of a suspect package well below the impact initiation threshold thus preventing sufficient stimuli to initiate explosive, pyrotechnic, or flammable materials. An automatic standoff device may be used to allow the operator of a remotely operated vehicle or the feedback mechanism of an autonomously operated vehicle to optimally locate the abrasive fluid stream.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for remotely accessing packages suspect of containing hazardous devices, the method comprising the steps of: supplying a low pressure hydro-solution from a supply reservoir to an intensifier for pressurization to a high pressure hydro-solution; supplying the high pressure hydro-solution from the intensifier via a high pressure hose to a cutting nozzle supported by a hazardous duty robot independently moveable relative to said intensifier; aspirating said high pressure hydro-solution from said intensifier with abrasive particles from an abrasive source which feeds abrasive to said cutting nozzle independent of said high pressure hose, to form a high pressure abrasive solution; directing said high pressure abrasive solution through an appropriately sized orifice of said cutting nozzle so as to form a high velocity continuous stream flow field; and focusing said high velocity continuous stream flow field at a controlled speed and impact area below impact initiation threshold towards a suspect hazardous device. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of providing water as said low pressure hydro-solution. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a gelatinous substance as said low pressure hydro-solution. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of providing an emulsion as said low pressure hydro-solution. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of moving a rolling platform supporting said intensifier to a location which places the continuous flow stream within reach of the suspect hazardous device with a maximum length or less of an extension of said high pressure hose. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of forming said high pressure abrasive solution by adding abrasive particles to said high pressure hydro-solution in said cutting nozzle includes feeding abrasive from an abrasive chamber mounted on said hazardous duty robot. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein abrasive is fed from a chamber having a quantity of abrasive sufficient for accessing of the suspect hazardous device. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of mounting said cutting nozzle on an x-y programmable stage removeably attached to said hazardous duty robot for optimally directing said high velocity continuous stream flow field. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising the step of deploying said high velocity continuous stream flow field by utilizing said x-y programmable stage which has a pre-programmed cutting interdiction sequence which controls cutting rate and limits an impact area of said fluid jet. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of utilizing an autonomous mobile unit as the hazardous duty robot which can be deployed to a location of said suspect hazardous device and which autonomous mobile unit includes a pre-programmed cutting nozzle pattern program. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of pressurizing said low pressure hydro-solution to include 50,000 lbs. per square inch. 12. A method for remotely accessing packages suspect of containing hazardous devices, the method comprising the steps of: supplying a low pressure hydra-solution from a supply reservoir to an intensifier for pressurization to a high pressure hydro-solution; aspirating said high pressure hydra-solution from said intensifier with abrasive particles via a mixing chamber forming a high pressure abrasive solution; directing said high pressure abrasive solution through an appropriately sized orifice forming a high velocity continuous stream flow field; focusing said high velocity continuous stream flow field at a controlled speed and impact area below impact initiation threshold towards a suspect hazardous device, and further comprising the step of pressurizing said low pressure hydro-solution to include 50,000 lbs. per square inch. 13. A method for remotely accessing packages suspect of containing hazardous devices, the method comprising the steps of: supplying a low pressure hydra-solution from a supply reservoir to an intensifier for pressurization to a high pressure hydro-solution; aspirating said high pressure hydro-solution from said intensifier with abrasive particles via a mixing chamber forming a high pressure abrasive solution; directing said high pressure abrasive solution through an appropriately sized orifice forming a high velocity continuous stream flow field; focusing said high velocity continuous stream flow field at a controlled speed and impact area below impact initiation threshold towards a suspect hazardous device, and further comprising the step of mounting said cutting nozzle on a hazardous duty robot for remotely directing said high velocity continuous stream flow field, and providing high pressure fluid from said intensifier to said cutting nozzle via a coilable high pressure hose and feeding abrasive to said cutting nozzle from a separate abrasive source, for mixing wit fluid traveling within said cutting nozzle. 14. A method for remotely accessing an abject suspect as containing hazardous material including moving a robot, with a fluid jet cutting nozzle in fluid communication with a high pressure fluid source via a flexible high pressure hose and, in communication with a separate source of abrasive feeding into the nozzle, into a position relative to the object and breaching an exterior surface of said a aspect object with a continuous stream of a high pressure hydroabrasive solution capable of disrupting an initiating system while not presenting sufficient stimuli to initiate contents of said suspect object. 15. The method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of adding abrasive particles to said high pressure solution from a chamber source supported by said robot. 16. The method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of intensifying said continuous stream of high pressure solution by utilizing an intensifier which is connected with said flexible hose. 17. The method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of operating the robot in-situ as a remotely operated vehicle. 18. An apparatus for remotely accessing packages suspect of containing hazardous devices comprising: a fluid supply reservoir containing fluid at a low pressure; a pump to transfer said low pressure fluid from said fluid supply reservoir to an intensifier; said intensifier supplying an output of regulated pressurized fluid; a remote hazardous duty robot which supports a cutting nozzle having an orifice; a high pressure hose, and wherein said output of regulated pressurized fluid from said intensifier is a high pressure fluid, which feeds through said high pressure hose to the orifice of said cutting nozzle forming a high velocity continuous stream flow field; an abrasive source in abrasive feed communication wit said cutting nozzle for mixing abrasive with said high pressure fluid at said cutting nozzle; said cutting nozzle including said orifice for focusing said high velocity continuous stream flow field with abrasive at a controlled speed and impact area below impact initiation threshold towards a suspect package; and a power generator for supplying power to said pump, and said intensifier, said generator being of a type which obviates the need for an external power source. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein abrasive particles are added to said high velocity continuous stream flow field via said cutting nozzle. 20. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said high pressure hose from said intensifier feeds into a hazardous duty robot for remotely directing said high velocity continuous stream flow field. 21. The apparatus according to claim 20, wherein an x-y programmable stage is removeably attached to said hazardous duly robot for remotely directing said high velocity continuous stream flow field. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said abrasive source includes a container mounted on said hazardous duty robot which container stores a sufficient quantity of abrasive for gaining access to said hazardous device. 23. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said high pressure hose is housed on a hose reel. 24. A method for remotely accessing suspect hazardous material, comprising: providing a source of high pressure fluid; providing a high pressure flexible hose in fluid communication with said source of high pressure fluid; positioning a remotely or autonomously controlled fluid jet cutting system at a desired position relative to the suspect hazardous material, while maintaining the fluid jet cutting system in communication with said high pressure flexible hose; providing an abrasive from an abrasive source to the controlled fluid jet cutting system; supplying fluid derived from said source of high pressure fluid and flexible hose to said fluid jet cutting system; mixing in situ, relative to said fluid jet cutting system, fluid from said high pressure flexible hose and abrasive from said abrasive source; directing a stream of mixed fluid and abrasive to facilitate accessing of the hazardous material. 25. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein providing abrasive comprises providing an abrasive chamber on said remotely controlled fluid jet cutting system which stores a quantity of abrasive for carrying out accessing of the suspect hazardous material. 26. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein said source of high pressure fluid provides fluid at a pressure which includes 50,000 psi. 27. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein high pressure fluid and abrasive material are mixed in a mixing area of a cutting nozzle of said fluid jet cutting system and passed through a limiting orifice to form a fluid-abrasive cutting jet. 28. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein, during positioning of said controlled fluid jet cutting system, said source of high pressure fluid is maintained stationary as said high pressure flexible hose and remotely controlled fluid jet cutting system are moved relative to said source of high pressure fluid. 29. The method as recited in claim 28 wherein said source of high pressure fluid is supported on a wheeled platform. 30. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein said controlled fluid jet cutting system comprises a remotely operated vehicle, and a fluid jet cutting nozzle supported on said remotely operated vehicle and positioning said remotely controlled fluid jet cutting system includes moving said vehicle and cutting nozzle from a first position to a second position with said second position being closer to the hazardous material than said first position. 31. The method as recited in claim 30 wherein during the step of moving said vehicle and cutting nozzle from the first position to a second position said high pressure hose is unwound out from a storage position. 32. The method as recited in claim 30 further comprising further manipulating the position of the cutting nozzle in a cutting pattern following location at said second position. 33. The method as recited in claim 24 further comprising manipulating a position of the cutting nozzle through adjustments made in a supporting robotic arm which is supported by said controlled vehicle. 34. The method claim 24 further comprising moving said cutting nozzle through a pattern that is based on a pre-programmed pattern. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein said pattern is carried out by adjustments in an X-Y cutting nozzle support stage. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein said X-Y cutting nozzle support stage is carried out based on a pre-programmed pattern which moves said cutting nozzle at a rate which provides for a complete cut through as the nozzle travels along the pattern. 37. The method of claim 24 further comprising a standoff device, said standoff device placing said controlled fluid jet cutting system at a predetermined spacing location relative to an object to be cut by said fluid jet cutting system. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein said standoff device is an automatic standoff device including means for placing the access nozzle at the predetermined spacing location. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein said standoff device is an automatic standoff device which includes a proximity sensor and a feedback system which monitors and compensates for off position relative to the predetermined spacing location. 40. The method of claim 24 wherein a first cutting sequence is performed to visibly access the hazardous material and a second cutting sequence is carried out to access and disrupt the hazardous material. 41. The method of claim 24 wherein said flexible hose feeds into said cutting nozzle at a first nozzle input location and said abrasive feeds into said nozzle at a second, independent nozzle input location. 42. An apparatus for remotely accessing hazardous material, comprising: a source of pressurized fluid; a controllable vehicle; a fluid jet cutting system supported on said controllable vehicle; a flexible fluid conduit extending between said source and said fluid jet cutting system; and said fluid jet cutting system including a cutting nozzle which is multipositionable relative to said controllable vehicle; and a source of abrasive in communication with the cutting nozzle of said fluid jet cutting system to introduce abrasive to a stream of fluid traveling through said cutting nozzle from said source of pressurized fluid. 43. The apparatus of claim 42 wherein said source of abrasive is an abrasive chamber which is supported by said controllable vehicle and includes an abrasive feed communication relationship with said nozzle which is independent of the flexible fluid conduit feeding fluid to said mixing chamber. 44. The apparatus of claim 42 wherein said vehicle is a remotely controlled vehicle. 45. The apparatus of claim 42 further comprising a proximity sensor which positions said fluid jet cutting system at a predetermined position relative to suspect hazardous material. 46. The apparatus of claim 42 wherein said source of pressurized fluid is supplied on a pressurized fluid support base and said apparatus further comprising an electrical generator and a support structure for a length of the flexible hose supported on said pressurized fluid support platform. 47. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein said pressurized fluid support base is a wheeled support base. 48. The apparatus as recited in claim 46 wherein the support structure for the flexible hose is a reel support for a coiled length of said flexible hose. 49. The apparatus as recited in claim 46 wherein said source of pressurized fluid is a high pressure source which includes 50,000 psi and said hose is a high pressure hose designed to handle the high pressure fluid supplied by said high pressure source. 50. The apparatus as recited in claim 46 wherein said fluid jet cutting system includes a multi-axis robotic arm supported by said vehicle and supporting the fluid jet cutting nozzle. 51. The apparatus as recited in claim 50 further comprising a program processor for moving said cutting nozzle through a cutting pattern while supported on said vehicle. 52. The apparatus as recited in claim 51 wherein said vehicle includes a location sensing means for locating said vehicle at a desired location relative to the object to be subjected to fluid-jet cutting and said apparatus comprises means for manipulating the cutting nozzle in a cutting pattern based on a spacing provided by said locating means. 53. The apparatus of claim 46 further comprising an X-Y stage which support said cutting nozzle and is programmable to carry out a predetermined cutting pattern and is supported by said vehicle. 54. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein said abrasive chamber has a capacity for storing a quantity of abrasive sufficient for accessing of the suspect hazardous material. 