Improved teleoperator techniques often make use of at least one input device which can be selectively operatively associated with, for example, either a surgical instrument to treat tissues, or with an image of a surgical worksite shown to a system operator. A novel image manipulation arrangement effects movement of the image corresponding to the movement of the input device so that the image appears substantially connected to the input device, optionally while the instrument (or instruments) remain at a fixed location at the worksite. This can give the operator the appearance of grasping and/or manipulating target tissue and worksite into a desired position for viewing, while movement of the image is actually effected by repositioning of the image capture device, electronic image manipulation, or the like. Alternative embodiments may make use of dedicated input devices for the image capture device and the instrument, and these image manipulation and teleoperator techniques will find uses in industrial, hazardous environment, and other applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotically assisted surgical system, the surgical system comprising: a display; an image of a tissue shown on the display; an input device movable relative to the display; an image capture device coupled to the display, the image capture device adapted to capture the image of the tissue from an internal surgical site; a processor coupling the input device to the display, the processor effecting movement of the image on the display in response to movement of the input device so that the image of the tissue appears substantially connected to the input device while the tissue remains stationary; and, a robotic end effector coupled to the processor for treating the tissue at the internal surgical site in response to commands from the operator input into the input device, wherein the processor fixes a position of the robotic end effector and moves the image capture device relative to the fixed end effector so that the image of the tissue on the display appears substantially connected to the input device. 2. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that: movement of the input device toward the operator increases a magnification of the image; movement of the input device upward moves the image of the tissue upward in the display; and movement of the input device to the right moves the image of the tissue to the right in the display. 3. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that: rotation of the input device about three orientational degrees of freedom effects corresponding rotational changes of the image so that the tissue appears rotationally connected to the input device. 4. A robotic surgical system comprising: an image capture device for viewing a surgical workspace; a display operatively coupled to the image capture device to show an image of the surgical workspace adjacent a controller workspace; a master controller in the controller workspace, the master controller being movable by an operator; a surgical end effector in the surgical workspace; and a processor coupling the master controller to the image capture device and the end effector, the processor having a first operating mode effecting a movement of the surgical end effector such that the end effector in the image follows a movement of the master controller in the controller workspace and a second operating mode effecting a movement of the image capture device so that the surgical workspace in the image appears substantially connected to the movement of the master controller in the controller workspace. 5. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that: a movement of the master controller toward the operator increases a magnification of the image; a movement of the master controller upward moves the image of the tissue upward in the display; and a movement of the master controller to the right moves the image of the tissue to the right display. 6. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that: a rotation of the master controller about three orientational degrees of freedom effects corresponding rotational changes of the surgical workspace in the image so that the surgical workspace appears rotationally connected to the master controller. 7. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the process comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that the second operating mode fixes a position of the end effector, and the movement of the image capture device is relative to the fixed end effected. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted to determine a velocity of the image capture device relative to the fixed end effector, the velocity of the image capture device following a position and a velocity of the master controller so as to catch the position and velocity of the master controller. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that: a movement of the master controller toward the operator increases a magnification of the image; a movement of the master controller upward moves the image of the tissue upward of the display; and a movement of the master controller to the right moves the image of the tissue to the right in the display. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein the processor comprises a computer program of machine readable code adapted so that a rotation of the controller about three orientational degrees of freedom effects a corresponding rotational change of the image so that the tissue appears rotationally connected to the master controller. 11. The system of claim 7 wherein the processor calculated a position of the end effector and a position of the image capture device in response to the master controller with a processing cycle rate of at least about 1300 Hz. 12. A method of controlling an image of a workspace appearing on an image display of a workstation, the workstation having a movable master control, a movable end effector, and a movable image capture device, the image display being capable of being viewed by an eye of an operator, the method comprising: moving the master control; determining a position and a velocity of the moving master control; determining a position and a velocity of the image capture device relative to end effector that follows a position and a velocity of the master control; and, driving the image capture device relative to the end effector in conformity with the velocity determined for the image capture device so that the image of the workspace appears substantially connected to the moving master control. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of moving the master control includes moving the master control toward the operator, and the method further comprises increasing a magnification of the image. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of moving the master control includes moving the master control upward, and the method further comprises moving the image of the tissue upward in the display. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of moving the master control includes moving the master control to the right, and the method further comprises moving the image of the tissue to the right in the display. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of moving the master control includes rotating the master control about three orientational degrees of freedom, and the method further comprises rotating the surgical workspace in the image so that the surgical workspace appears rotationally connected to the master control. 17. The method of claim 12 further comprising fixing a position of the end effector, wherein the determined position and velocity of the image capture device is relative to the fixed end effector, and wherein the step of driving of the image capture device drives the image capture device relative to the fixed end effector. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising scaling and offsetting the positions and the velocities of the master control. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising restricting the velocity of the image capture device relative to the fixed end effector. 