A mechanical system for allowing removable attachment of tools to a robot which is capable of accommodating positional and angular errors between the tool and the robot during attachment and release of the tool by using tapered attachments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interface to enable the removable attachment of at least one operator device to a machine, said interface including: a body defining a frustro-conical surface therein having an axis and a cylindrical surface therein having an axis perpendicular to said frustro-conical surface axis; an attachment member having an outer frustro-conical surface with an axis, said outer frustro-conical surface being shaped and sized to mate with said frustro-conical surface of said body, said attachment member also defining a second frustro-conical surface therein having an axis perpendicular to said outer frustro-conical surface axis; a pin having a cylindrical portion and a frustro-conical portion, said cylindrical portion being positioned and sized to slide along said cylindrical surface to said body and said frustro-conical portion being shaped and sized to mate with said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member; means to move said pin frustro-conical portion into and out of engagement with said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member; means to attach said body to the machine; and means to attach said attachment member to the operator device. 2. The interface as defined in claim 1 wherein said body includes sensor means to signal at least one position of said pin on said cylindrical surface of said body. 3. The interface as defined in claim 2 wherein said sensor means include means to signal the position of said pin when said pin frustro-conical portion is in mating engagement with said frustro-conical surface of said attachment member and to signal when said pin frustro-conical portion is disengaged out of the area defined by said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member. 4. The interface as defined in claim 2 wherein said sensor means include means to signal placement of said outer frustro-conical surface of said attachment member within the area defined within said frustro-conical surface of said body. 5. The interface as defined in claim 4 wherein said sensor means include at least one mechanically actuated electrical switch positioned on said body to be contacted by said attachment member. 6. The interface as defined in claim 1 wherein said frustro-conical surface axis and said cylindrical surface axis of said body are generally at a right angle to each other and said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member is generally at a right angle to said outer frustro-conical surface axis thereof. 7. An interface to enable the removable attachment of at least one operator device to a machine, said interface including: a body defining a frustro-conical surface therein having an axis and a cylindrical surface therein having an axis; an attachment member having an outer frustro-conical surface with an axis, said outer frustro-conical surface being shaped and sized to mate with said frustro-conical surface of said body, said attachment member also defining a second frustro-conical surface therein having an axis; a pin having a cylindrical portion and a frustro-conical portion, said cylindrical portion being positioned and sized to slide along said cylindrical surface of said body and said frustro-conical portion being shaped and sized to mate with said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member; means to move said pin frustro-conical portion into and out of engagement with said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member; means to attach said body to the machine; and means to attach said attachment member to the operator device, said attachment member further including at least one operator device holding assembly for removable engagement with a blanket having operator device locating orifices defined therein, said assembly including: means to hold the operator device; frustro-conical nipple with a smaller end sized and shaped to be inserted in the operator device locating orifices defined in the blanket, said frustro-conical nipple having an outer frustro-conical surface and at least two channels formed in said outer frustro-conical surface thereof; and at least two slider members positioned in said channels, said slider members having an outwardly extending hook adapted to engage the blanket after said frustro-conical nipple smaller end has been inserted in a operator device locating orifice defined therein when said slider members are moved away from said smaller end of said frustro-conical nipple. 8. The interface as defined in claim 7 wherein said operator device holding assembly includes: means to controllably move said slider members in said channels with respect to said frustro-conical nipple. 9. The interface as defined in claim 8 wherein said channels formed in said outer frustro-conical surface in general alignment with said axis thereof. 10. The interface as defined in claim 8 wherein said means to controllably move said slider members in said channels with respect to said frustro-conical nipple include a pair of pneumatic cylinders operatively connected between said frustro-conical nipple and said slider members. 11. The interface as defined in claim 10 wherein said operator device holding assembly includes a slide block assembly connected to be moved by said pneumatic cylinders, said slide block assembly having a cylindrical surface defining a hole therethrough through which said frustro-conical nipple extends and at least two retaining orifices which extend outwardly into said slide block from said slide block cylindrical surface, said slider members further include retaining teeth which are positioned in said retaining orifices. 12. The interface as defined in claim 11 wherein said channels each include a bottom surface and side surfaces adjacent thereto, said slide block includes bias means positioned to bear against said slider members, and said slider members each include a back slide surface which is held in engagement with said channel bottom surface by said bias means. 13. The interface as defined in claim 12 wherein said slider members each include an abutment surface between said hook and said retaining tooth thereof, said bias means including a spring and a pin biased by said spring to bear against said abutment surface. 14. The interface as defined in claim 10 wherein said body includes sensor means to signal at least one position of said pin on said cylindrical surface of said body. 15. The interface as defined in claim 14 wherein said sensor means include means to signal the position of said pin when said pin frustro-conical portion is in mating engagement with said frustro-conical surface of said attachment member and to signal when said pin frustro-conical portion is disengaged out of the area defined within said second frustro-conical surface of said attachment member. 16. The interface as defined in claim 14 wherein said sensor means include means to signal placement of said outer frustro-conical surface of said attachment member within the area defined within said frustro-conical surface of said body. 17. The interface as defined in claim 16 wherein said sensor means include at least one mechanically actuated electrical switch positioned on said body to be contacted by said attachment member. 18. The interface as defined in claim 10 wherein said slide block includes and abutment surface thereon adjacent the orifice defined therethrough, said abutment surface being positioned to engage the blanket when said hooks are engaged with said blanket. 19. The interface as defined in claim 10 wherein said nipple includes a frustro-conical surface sized to engage with the orifices of the blanket. 20. The interface as defined in claim 10 wherein said nipple includes an axial bore therethrough through which a portion of the operator device can extend. 