An automobile interior component having sound-dampening characteristics has a contact area thereon which contacts a second interior plastic component during operation of the automobile resulting in noise. The interior plastic component has a thermoplastic elastomer self-adhered to the contact area to thereby dampen the noise created at the contact area. A method for making a sound-dampened interior plastic component includes extruding a body of thermoplastic elastomer through a die onto a contact area of an interior plastic automobile component and allowing the extruded body of thermoplastic elastomer to cool, solidify, and adhere to the interior plastic component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automobile interior part having sound-dampening characteristics, comprising a first interior plastic component having a contact area thereon which contacts a second interior plastic component during operation of the automobile resulting in noise, the first interior plastic component having a thermoplastic elastomer self-adhered to the contact area to thereby dampen the noise created at the contact area. 2. The interior part of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is present along the contact area in a fashion selected from the group consisting of continuous and discontinuous. 3. The interior part of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is adhered to a surface selected from the group consisting of a substantially planar surface, a corner consisting of two substantially planar surfaces, and an edge consisting of three substantially planar surfaces. 4. The interior part of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is based on a polymer selected from the group consisting of polypropylene, polyethylene, and combinations thereof. 5. The interior part of claim 1, wherein the interior plastic component is selected from the group consisting of engine covers and trim bezels. 6. The interior part of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is generally in a shape selected from the group consisting of tubular, flat, L-shaped in transverse cross section, and U-shaped in transverse cross section. 7. The interior part of claim 6, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer has a finger thereon. 8. The interior part of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is a body which is secured to the interior plastic component in part by mechanical means. 9. The interior part of claim 8, wherein the mechanical means is, in part, present on the interior component and is selected from the group consisting of tabs on the interior component, holes in the interior component, and undercuts into the interior component. 10. An automobile interior part having sound-dampening characteristics, comprising a first interior plastic component having a contact area thereon which contacts a second interior plastic component during operation of the automobile resulting in noise, the first interior plastic component having a thermoplastic elastomer body self-adhered to the contact area to thereby dampen the noise created at the contact area, the thermoplastic elastomer body being generally in a shape selected from the group consisting of tubular, L-shaped in transverse cross section, and U-shaped in transverse cross section. 