This invention provides novel assays for primase activity and for identifying modulators of primase activity. The assays include both solid-phase and liquid-phase methods that are amenable to high throughput screening methods. The assays of the invention are readily adaptable to numerous types of primase, and are capable of identifying novel classes of primase activity modulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring the activity of a primase, the method comprising the steps of: incubating a mixture comprising a DNA template, a primase, and ribonucleotide triphosphates under conditions in which the primase polymerizes the triphosphates on the template to form a nucleic acid comprising one or more DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions; contacting the nucleic acid with a recognition reagent that comprises a tag and a moiety which specifically binds to a DNA-RNA heterohybrid region; binding the tag to a solid support; and detecting the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions immobilized on the solid support. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions are not adjacent to a promoter region in the DNA template. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the step of quantitating the amount of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions bound to the solid support. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction mixture comprises one or more ribonucleotide triphosphates which comprise a label and the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions is detected by determining whether the nucleic acid comprises labeled ribonucleotide triphosphates. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction mixture comprises one or more ribonucleotide triphosphates which comprise a hapten and the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions is detected by contacting the nucleic acid with a detection reagent that binds to the hapten. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the recognition reagent comprises an antibody which binds to DNA-RNA heterohybrids. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the antibody does not bind to DNA-DNA homoduplexes. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions are detected by binding a detection reagent to the nucleic acid, wherein the detection reagent is directly or indirectly detectable, and detecting the detection reagent. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising removing unbound detection reagent by washing the unbound detection reagent from the solid substrate, wherein the unbound detection reagent is not bound to the DNA-RNA heterohybrid region. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the detection reagent comprises an antibody which binds to DNA-RNA heterohybrids. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the detection reagent comprises a detectable label. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the detectable label comprises an alkaline phosphatase label and the method further comprises adding an alkaline phosphatase substrate to the detection reagent. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises parallel repetition of the reaction steps in a microtiter format. 14. A method for measuring the activity of a primase, the method comprising the steps of: providing a DNA template immobilized on a solid support; contacting the DNA template with a reaction mixture comprising a primase and ribonucleotide triphosphates under conditions in which the primase polymerizes the triphosphates on the template to form a nucleic acid comprising one or more DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions; and detecting the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions bound to the solid support. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises the step of quantitating the amount of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions bound to the solid support. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions are not adjacent to a promoter region in the DNA template. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the reaction mixture comprises one or more ribonucleotide triphosphates which comprise a label and the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions is detected by determining whether the nucleic acid comprises labeled ribonucleotide triphosphates. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the reaction mixture comprises one or more ribonucleotide triphosphates which comprise a hapten and the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions is detected by contacting the nucleic acid with a detection reagent that binds to the hapten. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the presence of DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions is detected by contacting the nucleic acid with a detection reagent which binds to the DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions and detecting the amount of detection reagent bound to the DNA-RNA heterohybrid regions. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the detection reagent comprises an antibody that binds to DNA-RNA-heterohybrid nucleic acids. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the recognition reagent does not bind to DNA-DNA homoduplexes. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the recognition reagent comprises a detectable label. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the detectable label comprises an alkaline phosphatase label and the method further comprises adding an alkaline phosphatase substrate to the detection reagent. 24. The method of claim 14, wherein the method comprises parallel repetition of the reaction steps in a microtiter format. 25. The method of claim 1 or 14 wherein the reaction mixture further comprises a potential modulator of primase activity. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of a bead, a membrane, and a 96-well plate. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the method comprising repeating the method steps in parallel in a microtiter plate format, wherein at least about 1,000 different potential activity modulators are tested for an effect on primase activity. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein at least about 1,000 different potential activity modulators are tested for an effect on primase activity in one day. 