Bonded vehicular glass assemblies utilizing two-component urethane adhesives to attach dynamic load-bearing attachment members to glass substrates to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle, and related methods of forming are described herein. In addition, methods of attaching components to glass by use of these adhesives are disclosed. The two-component urethane adhesives utilized in this invention have been found to provide surprisingly strong bonds between glass and other materials which meet or exceed OEM requirements, and be particularly well suited for use in vehicles.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method of forming a bonded vehicular assembly by adhering a load-bearing attachment member to a glass surface, said method comprising: providing a substrate having a first glass surface and an opposing second surface; providing an attachment member to be adhered to said first glass surface, said attachment member having a mounting surface; forming a rapid set, rapid cure, two component urethane adhesive by mixing an isocyanate component and a polyol component; depositing a layer of said adhesive on at least one of said attachment member mounting surface and said first glass surface, said layer of adhesive consisting essentially of said rapid set, rapid cure, two component urethane adhesive; positioning said attachment member and said substrate after said mixing of said components and said depositing of said layer on said mounting surface or said first glass surface such that said adhesive layer is disposed between and contacting said attachment member mounting surface and at least a portion of said first glass surface of said substrate without exposure of said attachment member on said opposing second surface of said substrate; said adhesive setting up during a set up period while said adhesive layer holds said attachment member against movement resulting from the weight of said substrate and/or attachment member and/or from application of a relatively slight force; and allowing said adhesive layer to cure, said cured adhesive layer bonding said attachment member to said first glass surface prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said polyol component includes a high amine density plural amine compound in an amount of from about 2% to about 20% by weight of said polyol component; said method including mixing at least one filler agent in at least one of said isocyanate component and said polyol component, wherein said filler agent is in an amount of from about 15% to about 50% of the total weight of said polyol and isocyanate components. 3. The method of claim 2 including mixing said filler agent in an amount of from about 20% to about 30% of the total weight of said polyol and said isocyanate components. 4. The method of claim 2 including selecting said filler agent from the group consisting of silicates, silica, calcium carbonate, talc, and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1 including providing said isocyanate component as compounds with isocyanate functionality and providing said polyol component as a mixture of a) polyol compounds with at least two hydroxy functionalities and b) at least one high density plural amine compound with at least two amino functionalities, and wherein the ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and/or amino functionality is from about 0.9 to about 2.0. 6. The method of claim 5 including providing said ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amine functionality from about 1.03 to about 1.4. 7. The method of claim 6 including providing said ratio of isocyanate functionality to hydroxy and amino functionality from about 1.1 to about 1.3. 8. The method of claim 2 including providing said high amine density plural amine compound as a compound contains having an amine to carbon ratio of from about 1.0 to about 0.25:1 with the provisos that (i) the compound contains at least 3 amine groups except if said compound is aromatic then said compound at least 2 amine groups, and (ii) the compound contains from 2 to 24 carbon atoms. 9. The method of claim 8 including providing said high amine density plural amine compound with a molecular weight of from about 115 to about 5000. 10. The method of claim 9 including providing said high amine density plural amine compound with a molecular weight of from about 210 to about 290. 11. The method of claim 2 including providing said high amine density plural amine compound as a reaction product of (i) at least one of pentaerythritrol, glucose, and sucrose, and (ii) at least one member selected from the group consisting of ammonia and amino alkanes of the formula, C.sub.x H.sub.n HN.sub.2, where x ranges from 1 to 20 and n is such that the alkane is saturated. 12. The method of claim 11 including providing x in a range from about 1 to about 6. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising, prior to depositing said adhesive, a step of: depositing a layer of at least one of an adhesion promoter and a primer on at least one of said first glass surface and said attachment member mounting surface. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the thickness of said layer of said adhesive disposed between said attachment member and at least a portion of said first glass surface is from about 0.01 mm to about 4.0 mm. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the thickness of said adhesive is from about 0.25 mm to about 2.0 mm. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the thickness of said adhesive is from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. 17. The method of claim 1 including performing said depositing step by robotic deposition. 18. The method of claim 1 including performing said depositing step by utilizing a dispense metering unit and a mixing unit. 19. The method of claim 18 including mixing said components with a static mix tube in association with a sequential reverse static mixer. 20. The method of claim 18 including delivering said adhesive through thermally controlled lines to said dispense metering unit. 21. The method of claim 1 including accelerating said curing by heating said adhesive. 22. The method of claim 21 including selecting said heating from the group consisting of induction curing, infra red heating, and combinations thereof. 23. A method of forming a bonded vehicular assembly by adhering a load-bearing attachment member to a glass surface, said method comprising: providing a substrate having a first glass surface and an opposing second surface; providing an attachment member to be adhered to said first glass surface, said attachment member having a mounting surface; forming a rapid set, rapid cure, two component urethane adhesive with an isocyanate component and a polyol component by metering a controlled volume of each component and mixing said metered volumes of said components; robotically depositing a layer of said adhesive on at least one of said attachment member mounting surface and said first glass surface, said layer of adhesive consisting essentially of said rapid set, rapid cure, two component urethane adhesive; positioning said attachment member and said substrate after said mixing of said components and said depositing of said layer on said mounting surface or said first glass surface such that said adhesive layer is disposed between and contacting said attachment member mounting surface and at least a portion of said first glass surface of said substrate without exposure of said attachment member on said opposing second surface of said substrate; said adhesive setting during a set up period while said adhesive layer holds said attachment member against movement resulting from the weight of said substrate and/or said attachment member and/or from application of a relatively slight force; and allowing said adhesive layer to cure, said cured adhesive layer bonding said attachment member to said first glass surface prior to installation of said assembly in the vehicle. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said metering includes dispensing said isocyanate and polyol components with gear pump-based dispensing units. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said gear pump based dispensing units include gears which are set to dispense said isocyanate and polyol components prior to said mixing at a ratio of 1.3 parts isocyanate component to 1 part polyol component. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein said mixing includes directing said components through a static mix tube in association with a sequential reverse static mixer. 27. The method of claim 26 including directing said components to said dispensing units, mix tube and static mixer with thermally controlled conduits whereby said components are maintained at about 95.degree. F. 28. The method of claim 23 including mixing said metered volumes of said components with at least one of a static mix tube and a dynamic mix head. 29. The method of claim 23 wherein said metering includes maintaining the volume of each of said components constant for a specific flow rate such that the ratio of said isocyanate component to said polyol component remains unchanged as the total dispensed volume and flow rate change. 30. The method of claim 23 further including robotically applying at least one of an adhesion promoting compound and a primer to a portion of said first glass surface prior to positioning said attachment member and said substrate with said layer of adhesive therebetween. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein said robotic application includes applying said adhesion promoting compound in liquid form with a programmable robot fixtured with a liquid application device. 32. The method of claim 31 including programming said robot to obtain a piece of material from a dispenser, and wiping said material across said portion of said first glass surface while said material is loaded with said adhesion promoting compound. 33. The method of claim 32 including pumping a small volume of a silane based adhesion promoting compound to the surface of said material during said wiping such that a wet streak of said adhesion promoting compound is formed on said portion of said first glass surface, and allowing said adhesion promoting compound to flash off said first glass surface. 34. The method of claim 23 including robotically applying a primer composition to said portion of said first glass surface. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein said robotic application of said primer composition includes applying said primer composition in liquid form with a programmable robot fixtured with a liquid application device. 36. The method of claim 35 including programming said robot to obtain a piece of material from a dispenser, and wiping said material across said portion of said first glass surface while said material is loaded with said primer composition. 37. The method of claim 36 including pumping a small volume of a urethane primer to the surface of said material during said wiping such that a wet streak of said primer composition is formed on said portion of said first glass surface, and allowing said primer composition to flash off said first glass surface. 38. The method of claim 34 wherein said positioning includes acquiring said attachment member with said robot and locating said attachment member on said portion of said first glass surface within about 30 seconds after said adhesive is deposited on said at least one of said attachment member mounting surface and said first glass surface. 39. The method of claim 38 including holding said attachment member against said substrate with said robot for a time period less than or equal to about 30 seconds after said positioning of said attachment member. 