Automated drug discovery protocols, or partially automated protocols, in which matrices-with-memories serve as the platform on which all manipulations are performed or serve as the repository of information that is transferred to other memories as the synthesized compounds are processed and screened. Also provided are automated drug discovery units for use in the protocols. The units provide for seamless data tracking and include instrumentation and vials with memories for information transfer to other memories in a unit. The units, which are provided herein, include some or all of the following: an automated or manual sorter, microreactors and microvessels, which contain memories, an automated or semi-automated synthesizer, a microreactor washer/dryer, a manual or automated cleaver with a valved U-tube outlet for removing compounds from the matrix-with-memory microreactors, and associated software. The memories may be any of any type, including electromagnetically encodable memories and optical memories, or combinations thereof. The memories may be pre-encoded or may be encodable during, after or before processing. Also provided are manual and automated methods for sorting matrices with memories.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for use in a cleaving reaction using compounds from a plurality of microreactors, wherein each microreactor is disposed within a carrier having an at least partially open lower end, and wherein a plurality of carriers are disposed in a first array within a carrier tray, the apparatus comprising: a cleaving block comprising a plurality of bores adapted for receiving the plurality of carriers, wherein the plurality of bores is arranged to correspond to the first array within the carrier tray so that each carrier is disposed within a corresponding bore; a drain means disposed at a lower end of each bore of the plurality of bores, the drain means comprising at least one drain tube which extends outside of the cleaving block and further comprising a valve means adapted for preventing flow through the at least one drain tube; a plurality of wells arranged in a second array; a vacuum chamber abutting the cleaving block to form a vacuum seal, the plurality of wells being disposed within the vacuum chamber so that the at least one drain tube is directed toward a well of the plurality of wells; a vacuum source connected to the vacuum chamber; and a controller for activating the vacuum source to draw a vacuum on the vacuum chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the drain means includes a trap for preventing a flow through the at least one drain tube when the vacuum is not being drawn. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the trap comprises a U-tube comprising an inverted U-shape. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of well trays disposed within the vacuum chamber for retaining the wells. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one alignment key for aligning the carrier tray with the cleavage block. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carrier tray includes a remotely readable tag for identifying the carrier tray. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the well tray includes a remotely readable tag for identifying the well tray. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cleaving block includes a remotely readable tag for identifying the cleaving block. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the drain tube is a U-tube and the valve means comprises a structure for collapsing a section of the drain tube. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a shaker for accelerating the cleaving process. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carrier tray is compatible with and fits within an automated sorter unit drawer. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating element for heating the cleaving block to enhance cleavage. 13. An apparatus for use in a cleaving reaction simultaneously using a plurality of compounds from a plurality of microreactors using a cleaving agent, wherein each microreactor has been sorted into a plurality of open-bottom carriers disposed in a first array within a carrier tray, the apparatus comprising: a cleaving block comprising a bore corresponding to each carrier of the plurality of carriers, each bore being adapted to receive at least a bottom portion of each carrier and for retaining the cleaving agent; a plurality of wells for receiving a solution formed from the cleaving agent and the compound; a plurality of drain tubes, each drain tube comprising a first end disposed adjacent a bottom of each bore and a second end disposed above or within a well of the plurality of wells; a valve means for preventing flow through each drain tube; a vacuum chamber comprising tray for holding the plurality of wells in a second array, the vacuum chamber abutting the cleaving block to form a vacuum seal so that a vacuum drawn on the vacuum chamber draws the solution through the plurality of drain tubes and into the plurality of wells. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein each drain tube comprises a U-tube comprising an inverted U-shape. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the valve means comprises means for collapsing a section of the drain tube. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the carrier tray includes a remotely readable tag for identifying the carrier tray. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the plurality of wells are retained within a well tray, and the well tray includes a remotely readable tag for identifying the well tray. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the cleaving block includes a remotely readable tag for identifying the cleaving block. 