An ion implantation system that rapidly and efficiently processes large quantities of workpieces, such as flat panel displays. The ion implantation system includes a high vacuum process chamber that mounts an ion source, a single workpiece translating stage, and a loadlock. The single workpiece handling assembly mounted within the process chamber both removes the workpiece from the loadlock and supports the workpiece during implantation by the ion beam generated by the ion source. The process chamber is in selective fluid communication with a loadlock assembly, which in turn is mechanically integrated with a workpiece loading or end station. Additionally, the workpiece handling assembly includes a translation stage or element for translating the workpiece in a linear scanning direction during implantation. This linear scanning direction extends along a path transverse or orthogonal to the horizontal longitudinal axis of the implantation system. According to one practice, the scanning direction and the longitudinal axis form an angle therebetween that is less than or equal to about 85 degrees.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A method for implanting a workpiece with an ion source, comprising the steps of: providing a processing chamber, providing a loadlock assembly having at least one loadlock chamber separate from and located outside of said processing chamber, moving only said loadlock assembly into substantially pressure-tight communication with said processing chamber, moving the workpiece from the loadlock chamber into the separate processing chamber, while in the processing chamber, implanting the workpiece with the ion source, and removing the workpiece from the processing chamber into the loadlock chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of cooling the workpiece when resident within the loadlock chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of repeating the steps of moving the workpiece and implanting the workpiece until the entire workpiece is implanted. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of applying a pressure to one side of the workpiece with a vacuum network when resident within the loadlock chamber to effect cooling thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of drawing the workpiece into relatively close proximity with a cooling surface of the loadlock chamber to effect heat transfer between the workpiece and the cooling surface. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of circulating a cooling fluid through the cooling surface. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of controlling the pressure within the loadlock chamber so as to define a gap between the workpiece and a cooling surface of the loadlock to ensure that the heat transfer between the cooling surface and the workpiece is predominantly conductive. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of disposing the loadlock chamber at a selected pressure to create a force on the workpiece to place the workpiece in close proximity to a cooling surface within the loadlock chamber. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of positioning the workpiece within the loadlock chamber and relative to a cooling surface of the loadlock chamber to form a gap between the workpiece and the cooling surface, and disposing the loadlock chamber at a pressure between about 35 Torr and about 760 Torr, such that the gap beneath the workpiece is disposed at a pressure between about 20 Torr and about 745 Torr, thereby forming a net force on the workpiece that draws the workpiece toward the cooling surface. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of allowing passage of a mechanical lift assembly into the loadlock chamber to act upon the workpiece. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of placing the workpiece back into the processing chamber from the loadlock chamber for further implantation. 12. A method for implanting a workpiece with an ion source, comprising the steps of: providing a processing chamber, providing a loadlock assembly having at least one loadlock chamber separate from and located outside of said processing chamber, moving only said loadlock assembly into substantially pressure-tight communication with said processing chamber, placing the workpiece into a loadlock chamber, moving the workpiece between the loadlock chamber and the separate processing chamber, implanting the workpiece when disposed in the processing chamber, and removing the workpiece from the processing chamber for placement within one of said at least one loadlock chamber. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of cooling the workpiece when resident within the loadlock chamber. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of applying a pressure to one side of the workpiece with a vacuum network when resident within the loadlock chamber to effect cooling thereof. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of controlling the pressure within the loadlock chamber so as to define a gap between the workpiece and the cooling surface to ensure that the heat transfer between the cooling surface and the workpiece is predominantly conductive. 16. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of positioning the workpiece within the loadlock chamber and relative to a cooling surface of the loadlock chamber to form a gap between the workpiece and the cooling surface, and disposing the loadlock chamber at a pressure between about 35 Torr and about 760 Torr, such that the gap beneath the workpiece is disposed at a pressure between about 20 Torr and about 745 Torr, thereby forming a net force on the workpiece that draws the workpiece toward the cooling surface. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of positioning the workpiece within the loadlock chamber, and forming a net force on the workpiece that draws the workpiece toward a cooling surface of the loadlock chamber to cool the workpiece. 18. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of repeating the transfer of the same workpiece between one of the loadlock chambers and the process chamber a selected number of additional times to further implant the workpiece. 19. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source, comprising the steps of: providing a processing chamber, providing a loadlock assembly, having a plurality of loadlock chambers separate from and located outside of said processing chamber, moving only said loadlock assembly into substantially pressure-tight communication with said processing chamber, bringing a selected one of said plurality of loadlock chambers into fluid communication with the separate processing chamber, wherein each of said plurality of loadlock chambers is sized for containing at least one workpiece, transferring one of the plurality of workpieces from the selected loadlock chamber to the processing chamber, implanting the workpiece with an ion beam, transferring the workpiece back to the selected loadlock chamber, and repeating the above steps until at least one workpiece has been implanted more than one time. 20. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further step of: disposing the selected load lock chamber at a selected pressure prior to bringing the selected loadlock chamber into fluid communication with the processing chamber. 21. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further step of: equalizing the pressure between the selected loadlock chamber and the processing chamber prior to bringing the selected loadlock chamber into fluid communication with the processing chamber. 22. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further step of: cooling the workpiece inside of the selected loadlock chamber subsequent to transferring the workpiece back to the selected loadlock chamber. 23. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further step of: suspending the workpiece inside of the selected loadlock chamber subsequent to transferring the workpiece back to the selected loadlock chamber to effect cooling of the workpiece by convection. 24. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further steps of: disposing a surface inside of the selected loadlock chamber at a selected temperature, and bringing the workpiece into contact with the surface subsequent to transferring the workpiece back to the selected loadlock chamber to effect cooling of the workpiece by conduction. 25. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 24, comprising the further step of: circulating a cooling fluid through the surface to dispose the surface at the selected temperature. 26. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further steps of: coupling a vacuum network to a surface inside of the selected loadlock chamber, and employing the vacuum network to draw the workpiece into contact with the surface subsequent to transferring the workpiece back to the selected loadlock chamber to effect cooling of the workpiece by conduction. 27. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 19, comprising the further step of: monitoring implantation parameters of the ion source contemporaneously with implanting the workpiece. 28. A method for implanting a plurality of workpieces with an ion source according to claim 27, wherein the monitoring step includes monitoring at least one of: current density of the ion source, number of neutral particles in the ion source, and mass of particles in the ion source. 29. A method for multi-processing a workpiece, comprising the steps of: moving a workpiece from a loadlock chamber into a separate processing chamber, treating a workpiece in the processing chamber, moving the workpiece from the processing chamber into the loadlock chamber, positioning the workpiece within the loadlock chamber and relative to a cooling surface of the loadlock chamber to form a gap between the workpiece and the cooling surface, disposing the loadlock chamber at a pressure between about 35 Torr and about 760 Torr, such that the gap beneath the workpiece is disposed at a pressure between about 20 Torr and about 745 Torr, thereby forming a net force on the workpiece when within the loadlock chamber that draws the workpiece toward the cooling surface, and placing the workpiece back into the processing chamber for further processing. 30. A method for multi-processing a workpiece with an ion source, comprising the steps of: placing a the workpiece into a loadlock chamber, moving the workpiece between the loadlock chamber and a separate processing chamber, treating the workpiece when disposed in the processing chamber, removing the workpiece from the processing chamber for subsequent placement within the loadlock chamber, positioning the workpiece within the loadlock chamber and relative to a cooling surface of the loadlock chamber to form a gap between the workpiece and the cooling surface, disposing the loadlock chamber at a pressure between about 35 Torr and about 760 Torr, such that the gap beneath the workpiece is disposed at a pressure between about 20 Torr and about 745 Torr, thereby forming a net force on the workpiece that draws the workpiece toward the cooling surface, and repeating the transfer of the workpiece between the loadlock chamber and the process chamber a selected number of additional times to completely treat the workpiece. 