A method for positioning a workpiece comprises the steps of providing a pedestal having a chamfered portion and a generally circular portion having a first diameter and providing a table having a hole therein and a chamfered portion, the hole having a second diameter larger than the first diameter. The inventive method further includes the steps of supporting the pedestal with the table, the chamfered portion of the table contacting the chamfered portion of the pedestal and placing the workpiece on the pedestal. Next, the chamfered portion of the pedestal is urged away from the table. Subsequent to the step of urging the chamfered portion of the pedestal away from the table, the pedestal is moved in at least one of X-, Y-, and theta directions while the generally circular portion of the pedestal extends into the hole in the table.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for transporting and testing an unpackaged semiconductor device comprising the following steps: staging a semiconductor wafer having a plurality of semiconductor devices thereupon; moving one of said semiconductor devices onto a chamfered pedestal of a carousel table, said carousel table having a chamfered portion, said chamfered pedestal resting against said chamfered portion of said carousel table; positioning said semiconductor device at a test head; lifting said pedestal from said carousel table toward a probe; responsive to a signal from a camera, moving said pedestal in at least one of an X-, Y-, and theta direction to align said semiconductor device with said probe; contacting said probe and said semiconductor device thereby making electrical contact between said semiconductor device and said probe; and testing said semiconductor device by passing an electrical signal through said probe to said semiconductor device. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said pedestal has a hole therethrough, said process further comprising imparting a vacuum through said hole in said pedestal to said semiconductor device thereby holding said semiconductor device in semirigid contact with said pedestal. 3. The process of claim 1 further comprising the step of heating said pedestal to raise the temperature of said semiconductor device prior to said testing step. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said positioning step comprises rotating said carousel table about an axis. 5. The process of claim 1 further comprising: rotating said carousel table subsequent to said testing step; removing said semiconductor device form said pedestal; and placing said semiconductor device on an adhesive film of a carrier ring. 6. The process of claim 5 further comprising the step of placing said semiconductor device on said adhesive film in accordance with performance characteristics determined during said testing step. 7. A process used during the manufacture of a semiconductor device comprising the following steps: providing a semiconductor device; providing a pedestal supported by a table wherein said pedestal rests on said table, said table including a hole therein and an insert received by said hole; resting said pedestal on said insert of said table; placing said semiconductor device such that said pedestal supports said semiconductor device; urging said pedestal away from said table; and moving said pedestal relative to said table to position said semiconductor device. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein the step of moving said pedestal includes extending a portion of the pedestal into said hole. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein said table and said pedestal each comprise a chamfered portion and said step of providing said pedestal includes contacting said chamfered portion of said table with said chamfered portion of said pedestal as said pedestal rests on said table. 10. The process of claim 8 wherein said step of moving said pedestal further comprises moving said pedestal in at least one of X-, Y-, and theta directions. 11. The process of claim 7 further comprising the step of contacting said semiconductor device with a test apparatus during said step of urging said pedestal away from said table. 12. The process of claim 7 wherein said pedestal and said insert further comprise chamfered portions wherein said step of providing said pedestal includes contacting said chamfered portion of said pedestal with said chamfered portion of said insert. 13. The process of claim 7 wherein said step of providing said semiconductor device includes providing an unpackaged semiconductor wafer section. 14. The process of claim 7 wherein said step of moving said pedestal is performed responsive to data from an optical input device, said step further comprising; contacting said semiconductor device with a test apparatus: and and testing said semiconductor device. 15. A method for positioning a workpiece comprising the following steps: providing a pedestal having a chamfered portion and a generally circular portion having a first diameter; providing a table having a hole therein and a chamfered portion, said hole having a second diameter larger than said first diameter; supporting said pedestal with said table, said chamfered portion of said table contacting said chamfered portion of said pedestal; placing said workpiece on said pedestal; urging said chamfered portion of said pedestal away from said table; and subsequent to said step of urging said chamfered portion of said pedestal away from said table, moving said pedestal in at least one of X-, Y-, and theta directions while said generally circular portion of said pedestal extends into said hole in said table. 16. The process of claim 15 further comprising the step of contacting said pedestal with a base which urges said chamfered portion of said pedestal away from said table. 17. The process of claim 15 further comprising the step of rotating said table subsequent to said step of placing said workpiece on said pedestal and prior to said step of urging said chamfered portion of said pedestal away from said table. 18. The process of claim 17 wherein said step of providing said table includes providing a table comprising at least four holes therein wherein each said hole receives a different chamfered pedestal therein. 