The water filter and water filter assembly for swimming pool cleaning machines of this invention has a hollow outer housing with a top, bottom, and sidewalls. An electrical pump motor is mounted within the outer housing and has an upper end. An output shaft on the pump motor extends upwardly therefrom and has an impeller mounted thereon which is positioned adjacent to and inwardly from a water discharge port in the top of the outer housing. The pump is positioned in spaced relationship with respect to the outer housing. An opening is located in the bottom of the outer housing to receive a water filter assembly. The filter assembly includes a filter housing which includes space U-shaped ends having top and bottom edges with an open U-shaped opening extending from the top edge and extending downwardly in the U-shaped ends towards the bottom edge thereof. The U-shaped ends have parallel side edges, and a pair of stiff rectangular filter elements are vertically mounted extending between the opposite side edges of the U-shaped ends. A U-shaped housing extends between the U-shaped ends and connects the U-shaped openings in each of the U-shaped ends. The filter housing has a removable bottom to cover the opening in the bottom of the outer housing. A router inlet port is in the removable bottom. The filter elements extend vertically from the top of the U-shaped housing member and removable bottom member to define a first compartment between the filter elements and the U-shaped housing member. A second compartment is located between the filter elements and the water discharge port.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A water filter assembly for an underwater swimming pool cleaning machine, comprising, an elongated filter housing a pair of longitudinally spaced U-shaped ends having top and bottom edges with an open U-shaped opening extending from the top edge and extending downwardly in the U-shaped ends towards the bottom edge and terminating above the bottom edge, the U-shaped ends having parallel side edges, a pair of stiff rectangular filter elements vertically mounted and extending between opposite side edges of the U-shaped ends, a U-shaped housing member extending between said U-shaped ends and connecting the U-shaped openings in each of U-shaped ends. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the filter housing has a removable bottom, a water inlet port in the removable bottom, a pair of elongated flaps normally closable on each other and positioned over the inlet port. 3. A filter system for an underwater swimming pool cleaning machine, comprising, a hollow outer housing having a top, a bottom and sidewalls, an electrical pump motor mounted within the outer housing and having an upper end, an output shaft on the pump motor and extending upwardly therefrom, an impeller mounted on the output shaft and being positioned adjacent to and inwardly from a water discharge port in the top of the outer housing, the pump being positioned in spaced relationship with respect to the outer housing, an opening in the bottom of the outer housing to receive a water filter assembly, the filter assembly including a filter housing, the filter housing including a pair of longitudinally spaced U-shaped ends having top and bottom edges with an open U-shaped opening extending from the top edge and extending downwardly in the U-shaped ends towards the bottom edge and terminating above the bottom edge, the U-shaped ends having parallel side edges, a pair of stiff rectangular filter elements vertically mounted and extending between opposite side edges of the U-shaped ends, a U-shaped housing member extending between said U-shaped ends and connecting the U-shaped openings in each of U-shaped ends, the filter housing having a removable bottom to cover the opening in the bottom of the outer housing, a water inlet port in the removable bottom, the filter elements extending vertically from the top of the U-shaped housing member and the removable bottom member to define a first compartment between the filter elements and the U-shaped housing member, and a second compartment between the filter elements and the water discharge port, whereby water drawn into the outer housing through the water inlet port will enter the first compartment, flow through the filter elements, and thence into the second compartment and outward through the water discharge port, to permit the filter elements to confine solids in the water entering the outer housing to be confined to the first compartment. 