A substrate processing system that includes a ceramic substrate holder having an RF electrode embedded within the substrate holder and a gas inlet manifold spaced apart from the substrate holder. The gas inlet manifold supplies one or more process gases through multiple conical holes to a reaction zone of a substrate processing chamber within the processing system and also acts as a second RF electrode. Each conical hole has an outlet that opens into the reaction zone and an inlet spaced apart from the outlet that is smaller in diameter than said outlet. A mixed frequency RF power supply is connected to the substrate processing system with a high frequency RF power source connected to the gas inlet manifold electrode and a low frequency RF power source connected to the substrate holder electrode. An RF filter and matching network decouples the high frequency waveform from the low frequency waveform. Such a configuration allows for an enlarged process regime and provides for deposition of films, including silicon nitride films, having physical characteristics that were previously unattainable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a deposition chamber comprising a reaction zone; a gas distribution system including a gas inlet manifold that comprises a first RF electrode and that supplies one or more process gases to said reaction zone, said gas inlet manifold comprising a plurality of holes therein, each of said holes comprising an outlet which opens into the reaction zone and an inlet spaced apart from said outlet, said outlet being larger in diameter than said inlet; a substrate holder that positions a substrate in the reaction zone, said substrate holder comprising a second RF electrode; a mixed frequency RF power supply comprising a high frequency RF power source coupled to said first electrode and a low frequency RF power source coupled to said second electrode; and a filter and matching network that decouples waveforms generated by said high frequency RF power source from waveforms generated by said low frequency RF power source. 2. The system of claim I wherein said low frequency RF power source generates a waveform that favors ion bombardment toward the substrate holder and hinders formation of harmonics. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the low frequency power source provides a triangular, bipolar waveform to the substrate holder. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said holes has a conically shaped vertical cross-section. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the substrate holder comprises a ceramic material and wherein said second RF electrode is embedded within said ceramic material. 