An apparatus for storing and retrieving labware comprises at least one labware hotel having a frame, a plurality of support arms for receiving and supporting labware, and an elevator capable of moving the support arms in unison. The support arms are periodically located upon an elevator cable and are removable from the cable such that the distance between adjacent support arms may be varied. A labware shuttle having a labware receiving surface is capable of holding and transporting labware between a first and second position. The first position is directly below a labware hotel and the second position is a location remote from the labware hotel. When the shuttle is in the first position, support arms from the labware hotel may engage labware held on the shuttle to remove labware from the shuttle or place labware upon the shuttle. When the shuttle is in the second position, the labware receiving surface may be rotated so that the labware upon the shuttle may be presented in at least two angular orientations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for storing and retrieving a plurality of microplates, the apparatus comprising: a. at least one microplate hotel, each microplate hotel comprising: i. a frame, ii. an elevator cable, iii. a plurality of support surfaces, each support surface for receiving and supporting a microplate, the support surfaces being removably positioned upon the elevator cable such that the distance between adjacent support surfaces on the elevator cable may be varied, iv an elevator motor capable of moving the elevator cable and support surfaces in unison; and b. a microplate transporter capable of holding one of the plurality of microplates, the transporter being movable between a first position and a second position such that when the transporter is in the first position one of the plurality of support surfaces may engage the one of the plurality of microplates held on the transporter. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one hotel support, the at least one microplate hotel removably held by the at least one hotel support. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one hotel support further comprises a first electrical connector and the at least one microplate hotel further comprises a second electrical connector such that the first electrical connector engages the second electrical connector of the at least one microplate hotel held on the at least one hotel support. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a control system operable to control movement of the elevator cable and microplate transporter. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the at least one microplate hotel further comprises means for determining the position of the support surfaces, the means for determining the position of the support surfaces operable to communicate with the control system. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the means for determining the position of the support surfaces is an optical sensor. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the means for determining the position of the support surfaces is electrically retrievable information stored within the at least one microplate hotel. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the support surfaces include clamps operable to be tightened against the elevator cable and loosened from the elevator cable to facilitate varying the distance between adjacent support surfaces on the elevator cable. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein movement of the elevator cable is operable to move one of the plurality of microplates between at least one of the plurality of support surfaces and the microplate transporter located in the first position. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the microplate transporter is rotatable. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the microplate transporter exposes a portion of a bottom surface of one of the plurality of microplates held by the transporter. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each support surface comprises a plurality of support arms. 13. An automated device for storing labware comprising: a. a plurality of labware hotels, each labware hotel comprising: i. a frame, ii. a plurality of labware support surfaces, iii. an elevator operable to move the plurality of labware support surfaces with respect to the frame in unison, and iv. a first electrical connector; b. at least one hotel support comprising a second electrical connector engagable with the first electrical connector of one of the plurality of labware hotels when the hotel is mounted in the hotel support. 14. The automated device of claim 13 wherein each of the plurality of labware hotels further comprises an elevator drive such that engagement of the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector provides power to the elevator drive. 15. The automated device of claim 13 further comprising a. a control system operable to receive registration information from each of the plurality of labware hotels; and wherein b. each of the plurality of labware hotels further comprises electrically retrievable information concerning the hotel or items stored therein, the information being communicable to the control system via the second electrical connector of the at least one hotel support. 16. The automated device of claim 15 further comprising: a. a transporter capable of holding labware, wherein b. the support surfaces cooperate with the transporter to place labware upon the transporter or remove labware from the transporter; and c. the control system sends instructions to the elevator to place labware on, and remove labware from, the transporter. 17. An automated device for storing labware comprising: a. at least one labware hotel comprising: i. a plurality of labware support surfaces, and ii. means for moving a labware from a support surface to a labware transporter; and b. a labware transporter capable of receiving labware from the labware hotel and transporting the labware between a first position in which the labware may be either placed into or removed from the labware hotel and a second position distant from the first position, the transporter comprising: i. a track, ii. a shuttle comprising a labware receiving surface, the shuttle being movable on the track between the first and second positions, iii. the labware receiving surface being rotatable with respect to the track such that labware on the labware receiving surface may be rotated between at least two angular orientations. 18. The device of claim 17 wherein each labware hotel further comprises an elevator operable to move the support surfaces in unison. 19. The device of claim 17 wherein the shuttle comprises a base and the labware receiving surface is rotatable with respect to the base. 20. A system for storing and retrieving a plurality of labware, the apparatus comprising: a. a plurality of labware hotels comprising first electrical connectors and storage areas for storing multiple labware; b. a mounting system to which the plurality of labware hotels may be removably mounted, the mounting system including a plurality of hotel supports having associated second electrical connectors engageable with the first electrical connectors, the mounting system being operable to move the plurality of labware hotels in unison so that one of the plurality of labware hotels may be moved to a first position; and c. a labware transporter capable of receiving labware from the one of the plurality of labware hotels in the first position and transporting the labware between the first position in which the labware may be either placed into or removed from the labware hotel and a second position distal from the first position. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the mounting system comprises a carousel. 22. The system of claim 20 wherein each labware hotel storage area further comprises: i. a plurality of support surfaces, each support surface for receiving and supporting labware, ii. an elevator capable of moving the support surfaces in unison. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein the distance between each support surface is adjustable. 24. The system of claim 20 wherein the labware transporter is rotatable. 25. The system of claim 20 wherein each labware hotel further comprises an elevator drive such that engagement of one of the first electrical connectors and one of the second electrical connectors provides power to the elevator drive. 26. The system of claim 20 wherein one of the plurality of labware hotels further comprises electrically retrievable registration information concerning the labware hotel, the information being communicable via the first electrical connector of the labware hotel, the system further comprising: a control system operable to receive registration information from the labware hotel when one of the plurality of second electrical connectors is engaged with the first electrical connector of the labware hotel. 