A method and apparatus is disclosed for maintaining states of an operator interface, such as an operator panel and convenience input/output station, of a dual library manager/dual controller system in the event of a failure to one controller during an operation. The invention allows control of the operator panel and convenience input/output station status lights and the states themselves by more than one controller without reinitializing at a default condition by detecting a failure during an operation, switching control to a second accessor controller and establishing a correct state for the operator interface via the second accessor controller. A correct state for a station is established by first establishing a fake empty status for the station and then locking the station, if necessary.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of for maintaining states of an operator interface of a dual library manager/dual accessor controller system in the event of a failure to one accessor, the method comprising the steps of: detecting a failure of the first accessor during an operation; exhibiting an incorrect state by the operator interface for a station in response to the failure of the first accessor; switching control to a second accessor controller; and establishing a correct state indication for the operator interface via the second accessor controller. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of detecting a failure further comprises the steps of: locking an input/output station; moving the data storage media to the station using a first accessor; unlocking the station; and detecting the failure of the first accessor. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of establishing a correct state for the operator interface further comprises the steps of establishing a fake empty status for a station and locking the station. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of detecting the failure further comprises the step of exhibiting an input state for the operator interface. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of establishing a correct state for the operator interface further comprises the steps of establishing a fake empty status for a station after the failure of the first accessor to cause the station to exhibit an available state. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of detecting the failure further comprises the steps of monitoring the status of the station and recognizing the correct state of the station when the failure occurs. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of establishing a correct state for the operator interface further comprises the steps of establishing a fake empty status for a station after the failure of the first accessor and locking the station to bring the station to the correct state. 8. A library manager system, comprising: an operator interface for displaying a status indication of a library system; a first accessor controller, operatively coupled to the operator interface, for controlling a first accessor for moving data storage media between storage slots, input/output stations, and data storage drives; a second accessor controller, operatively coupled to the operator interface, for controlling a second accessor for moving data storage media between storage slots, input/output stations, and data storage drives; at least one library manager, operatively coupled to the first and second accessor controllers, for controlling the first and second accessor controllers, the at least one library manager detecting a failure of the first accessor during an operation and switching control to the second accessor controller, the failure causing the operator interface to exhibit an incorrect state for a station, the second accessor controller taking control of the status indication of the library system by establishing a correct state indication at the operator interface for the station. 9. The library manager system of claim 8 wherein the failure occurs after data storage media is moved to the station and the station is unlocked. 10. The library manager system of claim 9 wherein the second accessor controller establishes a fake empty status after the failure of the first accessor and locks the station. 11. The library manager system of claim 9 wherein the failure causes the station to exhibit an input state. 12. The library manager system of claim 11 wherein the second accessor controller establishes a fake empty status for the station after the failure of the first accessor to cause the station to exhibit an available state. 13. The library manager system of claim 8 wherein the second accessor controller further comprises microcode for monitoring the status of a station, the microcode recognizing the correct state of the station. 14. The library manager system of claim 13 wherein the microcode establishing a fake empty status after the failure of the first accessor and locking the station to bring the station to the correct state. 15. An article of manufacture for a computer-based user-interface, the article of manufacture comprising a computer readable medium having instructions for causing a computer to perform automated reconcile of a server and client database in a virtual tape server, the method comprising the steps of: detecting a failure of the first accessor during an operation; exhibiting an incorrect state by the operator interface for a station in response to the failure of the first accessor; switching control to a second accessor controller; and establishing a correct state indication for the operator interface via the second accessor controller. 16. The article of manufacture of claim 15 wherein the step of detecting a failure further comprises the steps of: locking an input/output station; moving the data storage media to the station using a first accessor; unlocking the station; and detecting the failure of the first accessor. 17. The article of manufacture of claim 15 wherein the step of establishing a correct state for the operator interface further comprises the steps of establishing a fake empty status for a station and locking the station. 18. The article of manufacture of claim 15 wherein the step of detecting the failure further comprises the step of exhibiting an input state for a station. 19. The article of manufacture of claim 18 wherein the step of establishing a correct state for the operator interface further comprises the steps of establishes a fake empty status for the station after the failure of the first accessor to cause the station to exhibit an available state. 20. The article of manufacture of claim 15 wherein the step of detecting the failure further comprises the steps of monitoring the status of a station and recognizing the correct state of the station when the failure occurs. 21. The article of manufacture of claim 20 wherein the step of establishing a correct state for the operator interface further comprises the steps of establishing a fake empty status of a station after the failure of the first accessor and locking the station to bring the station to the correct state. 