A hidden storage system is incorporated in the bed of a vehicle without altering the bed's external appearance. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close the fender/side panel of the bed. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage system is incorporated into the bed by either an initial fabrication method or a conversion method using an existing bed. Collapsible support beams are located under the bed and upon impact the beams collapse rather than bending, thereby preventing rupture of a fuel tank typically located beneath the bed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a vehicle bed, the improvement comprising: at least one collapsible support member. 2. The vehicle bed of claim 1, wherein said at least one collapsible support member includes a central section and end sections, said end sections extending into opposite ends of said central section, said end sections being secured in said ends of said central section by means which breaks upon impact of said end sections for allowing said end sections allowing same to collapse into said central section. 3. The vehicle bed of claim 2, wherein said end sections extending into said central section are separated from each other by a distance "d". 4. The vehicle bed of claim 2, wherein an interior of said central section and an exterior of at least portions of said end sections which extend into said central section have a cooperating configuration. 5. The vehicle bed of claim 4, wherein said cooperating configuration includes square, rectangular, and circular configurations. 6. The vehicle led claim 2, wherein said end sections of said collapsible support member are constructed to extend into side panels of said vehicle bed. 7. The vehicle bed of claim 1, further including a floor section and a pair of side panel sections, said at least one collapsible support member being located beneath said floor section and having end sections which extend into said pair of side panel sections. 8. The vehicle bed of claim 1, including a plurality of the collapsible support members, each collapsible support member having a central section and opposite end sections wherein said end sections are collapsible into said central section. 9. The vehicle bed of claim 8, wherein said plurality of collapsible support members are located beneath a floor section of said vehicle bed. 10. The vehicle bed of claim 9, wherein said end sections of each of said collapsible support members extend into side panel sections of said vehicle bed. 11. A structural support system for a vehicle bed comprising: at least one collapsible support beam, said support beam including a central section and a pair of end sections constructed to collapse into said central section. 12. The structural support system of claim 11, wherein each of said pair of end sections has a portion extending into said central section, said portions of said end sections having ends spaced apart by a distance "d" said portions of said pair of end sections being secured in said central section by a connection. 13. The structural support system of claim 12 wherein said connection comprises at least one spot weld interconnecting said central section and one said end section. 14. The structural support system of claim 12, wherein said central section has an internal configuration, and said pair of end sections each have an external configuration corresponding to the internal configuration of said central section. 15. A collapsible structural support beam adapted to be mounted under a floor of a vehicle, said support beam consisting at; a longitudinally extending center section having an internal opening of a configuration selected from the group consisting of square, rectangular and circular configuration, and a pair of end sections having an external configuration on at least a portion thereof selected from the group consisting of square, rectangular and circular, and which cooperates with said internal opening configuration, said pair of end sections each having a portion thereof extending into said internal opening of said center section, each of said end sections including a connection to said center section, whereby an impact on an end of either of said end sections causes breakage of said connection allowing said impacted section to collapse into said center section. 16. The collapsible structural support beam of claim 15, wherein ends of said portions of said end sections extending into said center section are located at a spaced distance from one another. 