An implantable medical device such as a defibrillator is described. The device includes an hermetically sealed housing containing a flat electrolytic capacitor and an energy source such as a battery. The battery is connected to the capacitor and provides charge thereto. The capacitor stores the charge at a relatively high voltage. The charge stored in the capacitor is discharged through a defibrillation lead to a site on or in the heart when fibrillation of the heart is detected by the implantable medical device. Methods of making and using the implantable medical device, the capacitor, and their various components are disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. An hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising: (a) an hermetically sealed housing; (b) an energy source disposed within the housing; (c) a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor connected to the energy source and disposed within the housing, the capacitor comprising: (i) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (ii) a plurality of cold-welded flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of cold-welded anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having a thickness T and top and bottom surfaces, the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly having corresponding at least one vertically-aligned cold-welded region formed thereon, the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly having a thickness T+.DELTA.T, the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly being less than or equal to 0.50; (iii) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material and defined by a third perimeter; (iv) a capacitor case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a substantially flat planar base to form an open end; (v) a cover for sealing the open end of the capacitor case, the cover being disposed over and hermetically sealing the open end of the case; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the anode sub-assembly and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is formed of aluminum or aluminum alloy. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cover is formed of aluminum or aluminum alloy. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed of aluminum cathode foil. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode layers are formed of through-etched aluminum anode foil. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein each anode layer has a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 0.3 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 0.5 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 0.8 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein each anode layer has a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 20 micrometers to about 300 micrometers, from about 40 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 60 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, and from about 70 micrometers to about 140 micrometers. 10. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed from a highly etched cathode foil. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed from a cathode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 100 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 200 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 250 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 300 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed from foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 10 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 15 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, from about 20 micrometers to about 100 micrometers, from about 25 micrometers to about 75 micrometers, and about 30 micrometers. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode sub-assembly comprises a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least one notched anode layer. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the first separator layer is pressure bonded to the anode sub-assembly. 15. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly are covered by the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 16. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the top and bottom surfaces of the at least one cathode layer are covered by the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 17. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 18. The implantable medical device claim 1, wherein the energy source is selected from the group consisting of a battery, an electrochemical cell, a primary electrochemical cell, a secondary or rechargeable electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell comprising a lithium-containing anode, an electrochemical cell comprising a silver vanadium oxide-containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a (CF.sub.n).sub.x -containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a cathode containing a mixture of silver vanadium oxide and (CF.sub.n).sub.x, a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewithin. 19. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of anode layers are connected electrically to the case. 20. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 21. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 22. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein at least one anode layer thereof has a tab formed or attached to a perimeter thereof. 23. The implantable medical device of claim 22, wherein the tab is formed of aluminum. 24. The implantable medical device of claim 23, wherein the tab is formed of aluminum having a purity of about 99.99% aluminum. 25. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.50. 26. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.45. 27. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.40. 28. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.35. 29. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.30. 30. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.25. 31. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.20. 32. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.15. 33. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.10. 34. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.05. 35. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode sub-assembly has a plurality of tabbed anode layers contained therein, each such layer having an anode tab attached to a perimeter thereof. 36. The implantable medical device of claim 35, wherein the respective tabs of the tabbed anode layers are offset horizontally in respect of one another to reduce the thickness of the anode sub-assembly. 37. A substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising: (a) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (b) a plurality of cold-welded flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of cold-welded anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having a thickness T and top and bottom surfaces, the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly having corresponding at least one vertically-aligned cold-welded region formed thereon, the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly having a thickness T+.DELTA.T, the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly being less than or equal to 0.50; (c) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material and defined by a third perimeter; (d) a capacitor case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a substantially flat planar base to form an open end; (e) a cover for sealing the open end of the capacitor case, the cover being disposed over and hermetically sealing the open end of the case; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the anode sub-assembly and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly. 38. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 39. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the plurality of anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 40. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the case is formed of aluminum or aluminum alloy. 41. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the cover is formed of aluminum or aluminum alloy. 42. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed of aluminum cathode foil. 43. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the anode layers are formed of through-etched aluminum anode foil. 44. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein each anode layer has a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 0.3 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 0.5 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 0.8 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 45. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein each anode layer has a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 20 micrometers to about 300 micrometers, from about 40 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 60 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, and from about 70 micrometers to about 140 micrometers. 46. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed from a highly etched cathode foil. 47. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed from a cathode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 100 microfaradscm.sup.2, at least about 200 microfaradscm.sup.2, at least about 250 microfaradscm.sup.2, and at least about 300 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 48. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the at least one cathode layer is formed from foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 10 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 15 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, from about 20 micrometers to about 100 micrometers, from about 25 micrometers to about 75 micrometers, and about 30 micrometers. 49. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the anode sub-assembly comprises a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least one notched anode layer. 50. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the first separator layer is pressure bonded to the anode sub-assembly. 51. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly are covered by the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 52. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the top and bottom surfaces of the at least one cathode layer are covered by the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 53. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 54. The implantable medical device claim 37, wherein the energy source is selected from the group consisting of a battery, an electrochemical cell, a primary electrochemical cell, a secondary or rechargeable electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell comprising a lithium-containing anode, an electrochemical cell comprising a silver vanadium oxide-containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a (CF.sub.n).sub.x -containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a cathode containing a mixture of silver vanadium oxide and (CF.sub.n).sub.x, a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewithin. 55. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the plurality of anode layers are connected electrically to the case. 56. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 57. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 58. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein at least one anode layer thereof has a tab formed or attached to a perimeter thereof. 59. The implantable medical device of claim 58, wherein the tab is formed of aluminum. 60. The implantable medical device of claim 59 wherein the tab is formed of aluminum having a purity of about 99.99% aluminum. 61. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.50. 62. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.45. 63. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.40. 64. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.35. 65. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.30. 66. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.25. 67. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.20. 68. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.15. 69. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.10. 70. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.05. 71. The implantable medical device of claim 37, wherein the anode sub-assembly has a plurality of tabbed anode layers contained therein, each such layer having an anode tab attached to a perimeter thereof. 72. The implantable medical device of claim 71, wherein the respective tabs of the tabbed anode layers are offset horizontally in respect of one another to reduce the thickness of the anode sub-assembly. 73. A method of making an hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a housing for the implantable medical device; (b) providing an energy source for the implantable medical device and disposing the energy source within the housing; (c) forming a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising the steps of: (i) providing at least one cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (ii) providing a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil; (iii) vertically stacking the plurality of anode layers to form an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces and a thickness T; (iv) cold welding the anode sub-assembly such that the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly have at least one vertically-aligned cold-welded region formed thereon, the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T, and the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.50; (v) providing at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (vi) vertically stacking the at least one cathode layer, the cold-welded anode sub-assembly and the first separator layer such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly to form a capacitor electrode assembly; (vii) placing the electrode assembly in a capacitor case having an open end; (viii) placing a cover over the open end of the case; (ix) joining the cover to the case; (d) disposing the capacitor in the housing; (e) connecting the capacitor to the power source, and (f) hermetically sealing the housing. 74. The method of claim 73, wherein the cathode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the cathode layer from an aluminum cathode foil. 75. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the plurality of anode layers from through-etched aluminum anode foil. 76. The method of claim 75, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing aluminum anode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 0.3 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 0.5 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 0.8 microfarads/cm.sup.2 for each anode layer contained therein. 77. The method of claim 75, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing, for each anode layer contained in the capacitor, aluminum anode foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 20 micrometers to about 300 micrometers, from about 40 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 60 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, and about 70 micrometers to about 140 micrometers. 78. The method of claim 75, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of attaching the second tab to the second perimeter at the second location in the first anode layer. 79. The method of claim 75, wherein the cathode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the at least one cathode layer from a highly etched cathode foil. 80. The method of claim 79, wherein the cathode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing cathode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 100 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 200 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 250 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 300 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 81. The method of claim 79, wherein the cathode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing cathode foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 10 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 15 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, from about 20 micrometers to about 100 micrometers, from about 25 micrometers to about 75 micrometers, and about 30 micrometers. 82. The method of claim 79, wherein the cathode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing cathode foil having a purity of at least about 99%. 83. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing aluminum anode foil having a purity of at least about 99.9%. 84. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode layer providing step is preceded by a step of selecting a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least one notched anode layer for inclusion in the anode sub-assembly. 85. The method of claim 73, wherein the first separator layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the first separator layers from Kraft paper. 86. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode layer providing step and the separator layer providing step are preceded by a step of pressure bonding the first separator layer to the anode sub-assembly. 87. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode layer providing step and the separator layer providing step are preceded by a step of covering the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly with the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 88. The method of claim 73, further comprising the step of securing a free edge of the first separator layer with tape, adhesive or stitching or by ultrasonic paper welding. 89. The method of claim 73, wherein the cathode layer providing step and the separator layer providing step are preceded by a step of covering the top and bottom surfaces of the at least one cathode layer with the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 90. The method of claim 89, further comprising the step of securing a free edge of the first separator layer with tape, adhesive or stitching or by ultrasonic paper welding. 91. The method of claim 89, further comprising the step of securing a free edge of the first separator layer with tape, adhesive or stitching or by ultrasonic paper welding. 92. The method of claim 73, wherein the step of vertically stacking the at least one cathode layer, the anode sub-assembly and the separator layer further comprises providing a stacking fixture for registration of the layers therein as the layers are stacked in the fixture. 93. The method of claim 73, further comprising the step of wrapping the stacked electrode assembly with an outer wrap. 94. The method of claim 93, further comprising the step of securing the outer wrap to the stacked electrode assembly with tape. 95. The method of claim 93, further comprising the step of securing the outer wrap to the stacked electrode assembly with tape. 96. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.45. 97. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.40. 98. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.35. 99. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.30. 100. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.25. 101. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.20. 102. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.15. 103. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.10. 104. The method of claim 73, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.05. 105. A method of making a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising the steps of: (a) providing at least one cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (b) providing a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil; (c) vertically stacking the plurality of anode layers to form an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces and a thickness T; (d) cold welding the anode sub-assembly such that the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly have at least one vertically-aligned cold-welded region formed thereon, the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T, and the ratio .DELTA.T/T of the anode sub-assembly is less than or equal to 0.50; (e) providing at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (f) vertically stacking the at least one cathode layer, the cold-welded anode sub-assembly and the first separator layer such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly to form a capacitor electrode assembly; (g) placing the electrode assembly in a capacitor case having an open end; (h) placing a cover over the open end of the case, and (i) joining the cover to the case. 106. The method of claim 105, wherein the cathode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the cathode layer from an aluminum cathode foil. 107. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the plurality of anode layers from through-etched aluminum anode foil. 108. The method of claim 107, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing aluminum anode foil having a purity of at least about 99.9%. 109. The method of claim 107, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing aluminum anode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 0.3 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 0.5 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 0.8 microfarads/cm.sup.2 for each anode layer contained therein. 110. The method of claim 107, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing, for each anode layer contained in the capacitor, aluminum anode foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 20 micrometers to about 300 micrometers, from about 40 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 60 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, and about 70 micrometers to about 140 micrometers. 111. The method of claim 107, wherein the anode layer forming step further comprises the step of attaching the second tab to the second perimeter at the second location in the first anode layer. 112. The method of claim 107, wherein the cathode layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the at least one cathode layer from a highly etched cathode foil. 113. The method of claim 112, wherein the cathode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing cathode foil having a specific capacitance selected from the group consisting of at least about 100 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 200 microfarads/cm.sup.2, at least about 250 microfarads/cm.sup.2, and at least about 300 microfarads/cm.sup.2. 114. The method of claim 112, wherein the cathode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing cathode foil having a thickness selected from the group consisting of from about 10 micrometers to about 200 micrometers, from about 15 micrometers to about 150 micrometers, from about 20 micrometers to about 100 micrometers, from about 25 micrometers to about 75 micrometers, and about 30 micrometers. 115. The method of claim 112, wherein the cathode layer forming step further comprises the step of providing cathode foil having a purity of at least about 99%. 116. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode layer providing step is preceded by a step of selecting a plurality of non-notched anode layers and at least one notched anode layer for inclusion in the anode sub-assembly. 117. The method of claim 105, wherein the first separator layer providing step is preceded by a step of forming the first separator layers from Kraft paper. 118. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode layer providing step and the separator layer providing step are preceded by a step of pressure bonding the first separator layer to the anode sub-assembly. 119. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode layer providing step and the separator layer providing step are preceded by a step of covering the top and bottom surfaces of the anode sub-assembly with the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 120. The method of claim 105, further comprising the step of securing a free edge of the first separator layer with tape, adhesive or stitching or by ultrasonic paper welding. 121. The method of claim 105, wherein the cathode layer providing step and the separator layer providing step are preceded by a step of covering the top and bottom surfaces of the at least one cathode layer with the first separator layer and a second separator layer. 122. The method of claim 105, wherein the step of vertically stacking the at least one cathode layer, the anode sub-assembly and the separator layer further comprises providing a stacking fixture for registration of the layers therein as the layers are stacked in the fixture. 123. The method of claim 105, further comprising the step of wrapping the stacked electrode assembly with an outer wrap. 124. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.45. 125. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.40. 126. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.35. 127. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.30. 128. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.25. 129. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.20. 130. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.15. 131. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.10. 132. The method of claim 105, wherein the anode sub-assembly cold welding step is carried out such that the at least one cold-welded region of the anode sub-assembly has a thickness T+.DELTA.T and the ratio .DELTA.T/T is less than or equal to 0.05. 