The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for depositing titanium films at rates up to 200 .ANG./minute on semiconductor substrates from a titanium tetrachloride source. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a ceramic heater assembly with an integrated RF plane for bottom powered RF capability allows PECVD deposition at a temperature of at least 400.degree. C. for more efficient plasma treatment. A thermal choke isolates the heater from its support shaft, reducing the thermal gradient across the heater to reduce the risk of breakage and improving temperature uniformity of the heater. A deposition system incorporates a flow restrictor ring and other features that allow a 15 liters/minute flow rate through the chamber with minimal backside deposition and minimized deposition on the bottom of the chamber, thereby reducing the frequency of chamber cleanings, and reducing clean time and seasoning. Deposition and clean processes are also further embodiments of the present invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for depositing a layer on a substrate on a heater in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: heating said heater; A pressurizing said chamber; introducing a reactant gas and a source gas into said chamber, said source gas comprising a metal and a halogen applying RF energy to form a plasma adjacent to the substrate; and ramping the flow of said reactant gas, said source gas, and a plasma gas, to avoid thermally shocking said heater. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said introducing step comprises providing a reactant-sources gas flow ratio of less than about 100:1. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said metal comprises titanium. 4. The process of claim 3 wherein said source gas comprises titanium tetrachloride and helium. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein said reactant gas comprises hydrogen. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said metal comprises titanium and said halogen comprises chlorine. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein said source gas comprises titanium tetrachloride and helium, said reactant gas comprises hydrogen, and said plasma gas comprises argon. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said chamber is at a pressure of between about 1-10 torr. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein said chamber is at a pressure of between about 4.5-5 torr. 10. The process of claim 1 wherein said RF energy is applied at a frequency of between about 300-450 kHz and at a power of between about 200-2000 Watts. 11. The process of claim 1 further comprising the step of: reducing said RF energy from a first power level to a second power level while maintaining said plasma, said reducing step avoiding thermally shocking said heater and reducing particulate contamination within said chamber. 12. The process of claim 1 further comprising the steps of heating said heater to a first temperature and then heating said heater to a processing temperature wherein said first temperature is higher than said processing temperature. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein said first temperature is higher than said processing temperature by at least about 1%. 14. The process of claim 12 wherein said first temperature is about 635.degree. C. and said processing temperature is about 625.degree. C. 15. The process of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: flowing chlorine gas into said chamber at a selected flow rate and a selected chamber pressure; and applying RF energy to form a plasma within said chamber. 16. The process of claim 1 wherein said heater is heated to a temperature above about 500.degree. C. 17. The process of claim 16 wherein said heater is heated to a temperature above about 600.degree. C. 18. The process of claim 17 wherein said heater is heated to a temperature above about 700.degree. C. 19. The process of claim 1 wherein said heater is heated to a temperature of between about 550.degree. C. and about 650.degree. C. 20. The process of claim 1 wherein said source gas is liquid titanium tetrachloride heated to about 60.degree. C. and bubbled with helium gas flowing at about 400 sccm into said liquid titanium tetrachloride. 21. The process of claim 1 wherein said introducing step comprises providing a reactant:source gas flow ratio of less than about 250:1. 22. The process of claim 1 wherein said introducing step comprises providing a reactant:source gas flow ratio of between about 20:1 and about 50:1. 23. A computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of a deposition apparatus of the type having a heater pedestal disposed within a chamber and a gas delivery system coupled to the chamber, the apparatus being operable under the direction of a controller, the computer-readable program directing operation of the apparatus in accordance with the following: (a) heating a substrate with the heater; (b) pressurizing the chamber; (c) introducing a reactant gas and a source gas into said chamber, said source gas comprising a metal and a halogen; (d) applying RF energy to form a plasma adjacent to the substrate; and (e) ramping the flow of the reactant gas, the source gas, and a plasma gas, to avoid.sub.-- thermally shocking the heater. 24. A substrate processing apparatus, comprising: a chamber; a heater disposed within the chamber; a gas distribution system fluidly coupled to the chamber; pressure control system coupled to the chamber; a plasma generation system coupled to the chamber; and a controller coupled to the heater, the gas distribution system, the plasma generation system, the controller including a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of the apparatus in accordance with the following: (a) heating a substrate with the heater; (b) pressurizing the chamber; (c) introducing a reactant gas and a source gas into said chamber, said source gas comprising a metal and a halogen; (d) applying RF energy to form a plasma adjacent to the substrate; and (e) ramping the flow of the reactant gas, the source gas, and a plasma gas, to avoid.sub.-- thermally shocking the heater. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said heater comprises a pedestal having a surface capable of supporting a substrate, said pedestal comprising a heater assembly capable of resistively heating to a first temperature of at least about 400.degree. C. and said plasma generation system comprises an RF generator and an RF plane, said RF plane being disposed in said pedestal a distance less than about 200 mil below said surface. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said distance is less than about 60 mil. 27. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said first temperature is at least 500.degree. C. 28. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said first temperature is at least 600.degree. C. 29. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said gas distribution system includes a liquid delivery system with a pressure-based control inlet for introducing said source gas, said source gas comprising a vaporized liquid source, into said chamber. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said pressure-based control inlet has an orifice aperture size ranging between about 25-40 mil, and said source gas comprises titanium tetrachloride vaporized with helium gas. 