A pipetting device for use with a pipette tip containing a solid phase reaction support, comprising a cylinder, a plunger movable within the cylinder between a retracted and an extended position, and a seal disposed between the plunger and cylinder for holding the plunger as it moves. The plunger has a central passageway within an upper portion of the plunger communicating with a side egress port on the plunger, the plunger movable between a retracted position, for aspirating and dispensing liquid reagent wherein the port remains above the seal, and an inserted position wherein the port is positioned below the seal for allowing fluid (e.g., washing solution or inert gas) to be introduced into the cylinder and tip. In an apparatus and method, an array of such devices is used, each fitted with a pipette tip having a solid support retained therein, for performing high-throughput and parallel chemical synthesis of biopolymers (e.g., oligonucleotides or peptides). In one aspect, means are provided for separately controlling the movement of each device in the apparatus for contacting liquid reagent with the solid support. In another aspect, a tip remover is provided for selectively removing tips containing completed polymer.
Claims We claim: 1. A pipetting device for solid phase synthesis, said device comprising a cylinder having an upper end and a lower end and defining a cylindrical chamber extending therebetween, a plunger having an upper end and a lower end, wherein the plunger (i) is slidably movable in the cylindrical chamber between a retracted and an inserted position, (ii) has an outer diameter that is less than the inner diameter of the chamber, and wherein the difference between the outer diameter of the plunger and the inner diameter of the cylindrical chamber is large enough to allow fluid passage and (iii) has a central passageway leading from a portion of the plunger above said chamber to an egress port which traverses a lateral wall of the plunger within said chamber, a seal disposed adjacent the upper end of said cylinder for holding said plunger during movement thereof, and a pipetting terminus for mounting a disposable pipette tip, wherein said plunger is movable between (i) a retracted position wherein said egress port is positioned above said chamber, and (ii) an inserted position wherein said egress port is positioned within said chamber, for introducing a fluid through said passageway into the cylindrical chamber for delivery to a pipette tip when a pipette tip is mounted on said pipetting terminus. 2. The device of claim 1, which further includes a pipette tip mounted on said pipetting terminus, and said pipette tip contains a solid support for solid phase synthesis. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein said solid support contains at least one blocked protected nucleoside attached covalently thereto. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein said solid support contains at least one protected amino acid residue attached covalently thereto. 5. An apparatus for solid phase synthesis, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of devices in accordance with claim 1, wherein the plungers of said devices are operatively attached to a plunger plate for simultaneously moving the plungers relative to said cylindrical chambers for liquid dispensing. 6. An apparatus for solid phase synthesis, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of devices in accordance with claim 2, wherein the plungers of said devices are operatively attached to a plunger plate for simultaneously moving the plungers relative to said cylindrical chambers for liquid dispensing. 7. An apparatus for solid phase synthesis, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of devices in accordance with claim 1, wherein the movement of each device is under separate control of a controller so that each said devices can be manipulated independently of the other devices in the apparatus. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, which further includes: a power plate for moving the cylinder(s) of one or more of said devices longitudinally, said plate further defining apertures through which the cylinders protrude, and locking means associated with each cylinder for reversibly and separately locking each cylinder to said power plate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein each cylinder includes one or more pin members for locking with the power plate, the power plate includes corresponding recesses for allowing said pin members to traverse the power plate for each cylinder that is in an unlocked position, and the apparatus further includes means for independently rotating each cylinder about its longitudinal axis so that said pin member(s) may be locked to or unlocked from the power plate. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, which further includes a plurality of drive motors each having a drive shaft connected to anassociated plunger for independent longitudinal movement of each plunger. 