The orientation of a wafer carried on a blade of a semiconductor wafer transfer system is sensed in order to prevent wafer damage during transfer of the wafer from chamber-to-chamber within a semiconductor processing system. At least a pair of laser beams are used to sense both tilt of the wafer on the blade, and mis-alignment of the blade in the chamber. A control and logic circuit lock out movement of the blade when the laser beams indicate tilt of the wafer or mis-alignment of the blade.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of controlling the operation of a semiconductor wafer transfer system of the type having a blade upon which a wafer is carried, and a robotic arm for transferring said blade between a plurality of chambers in a semiconductor processing system, comprising the steps of: rotating said arm between each of a plurality of indexed positions respectively corresponding to said chambers; shifting said arm between an extended, wafer transferring position, and a retracted, home position; sensing by at least two laser beams and at least two receivers when said wafer is not in a preselected, desired position on said blade; and, inhibiting rotation and shifting of said arm when the position of said wafer sensed in said sensing step is not said preselected position. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of generating an error signal when said wafer is not in said preselected position thereof, and using said error signal to interrupt the rotation and movement of said arm. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensing step is performed by directing a pair of laser beams across and in close proximity to the surface of said wafer, receiving at a receiver each of said laser beams after said beams have traversed across said wafer surface, and creating an error signal when either of said beams is blocked by said wafer such that the blocked beam is not received by said receiver. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting when said wafer is tilted from a normal, horizontal position in reference to said blade. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting when said blade is out of a normal aligned position relative to one of said chambers. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting the absence of a wafer pedestal in a process chamber. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting that two wafers are stuck together and positioned in a wafer cassette. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting that the blade is positioned either too high or too low for picking up a wafer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein: said sensing step is performed by producing a first signal related to the detection of said wafer tilt, and producing a second signal related to the detection of said blade position, and said step of inhibiting rotation includes comparing each of said first and second signals with a pre-selected desired logic state. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of inhibiting rotation includes issuing an error signal inhibiting the rotation and shifting of said arm unless both of said first and second signals match said pre-selected, desired logic state. 11. A method of transferring wafer by a robot blade of the type having a blade upon which a wafer is carried, and a robot arm for transferring said blade between a plurality of chambers in a cluster, comprising the steps of: rotating said robot arm between each of a plurality of indexed positions respectively corresponding to said chambers; shifting said robot arm between an extended, wafer transferring position, and a retracted, home position; sensing by a plurality of laser beams and a plurality of laser receivers when said wafer is not in a preselected, desired position on said robot blade, said plurality of laser beams comprises two laser beams mounted on top of said robot blade and a laser beam mounted on the bottom of said robot blade; and, inhibiting rotation and shifting of said robot arm when the position of said wafer sensed is not said preselected position. 12. The method of claim 11, including the step of generating an error signal when said wafer is not in said preselected position thereof, and using said error signal to interrupt the rotation and movement of said arm. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of sensing is performed by directing a pair of laser beams across and in close proximity to a top surface of said wafer, directing a laser beam across and in close proximity to a bottom surface of said wafer receiving at a receiver each of said laser beams after said beams have traversed across said top and bottom wafer surfaces, and creating an error signal when either of said beams is blocked by said wafer such that the blocked beam is not received by said receiver. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of sensing is performed by detecting when said wafer is tilted away from a normal, horizontal position on said blade. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of sensing is performed by detecting when said blade is out of a normal aligned position relative to one of said chambers. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein: said sensing step is performed by producing a first signal related to the detection of said wafer tilt, and producing a second signal related to the detection of said blade position, and said step of inhibiting rotation includes comparing each of said first and second signals with a pre-selected desired logic state. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said step of inhibiting rotation includes issuing an error signal inhibiting the rotation and shifting of said arm unless both of said first and second signals match said pre-selected, desired logic state. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting the absence of a wafer pedestal in a process chamber. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting that two wafers are stuck together and positioned in a wafer cassette. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein said sensing step is performed by detecting that the blade is positioned either too high or too low for picking up a wafer. 