A system and method for detecting leakage of a part, includes a controller for generating a start command, a voltage generating circuit for generating at least one high voltage pulse signal in response to the start command, at least one testing station including first and second probes for placing a non-conductive part therebetween and for applying the at least one high voltage pulse signal to the non-conductive part, and an inductive detector detecting current from one of the first and second probes. The inductive detector generates a detection signal in response to the detection and transmits it to the controller. The controller compares the detection signal with a reference signal and determines any presence of leaks in the non-conductive parts based on the comparison result.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for detecting leakage of an electrically non-conductive part, comprising: a first controller; a voltage generating circuit for generating at least one high voltage pulse signal; at least one testing station including first and second probes for placing a non-conductive part therebetween and for applying said at least one high voltage pulse signal to the non-conductive part; and an inductive detector including an inductive coupling for detecting electrical leakage current from one of said first and second probes, said inductive detector generating a detection signal in response to leakage current and providing said detection signal to said first controller, said first controller comparing the detection signal with a reference signal and determining presence of leaks in non-conductive parts. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said voltage generating circuit includes a spark gap member coupled between a high voltage generator and said one of said first and second probes. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said spark gap member includes first and second metal bars having a gap formed therebetween, and a plastic housing containing said first and second metal bars. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a testing assembly containing a plurality of said testing stations. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a second controller for controlling operation of the testing assembly based on the leakage determination by the first controller. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein said testing assembly includes: an input conveyor rotatable in a first direction; a turret having said testing stations, said turret being rotatable in a second direction, said first direction being opposite to the second direction, the parts being transferred from said input conveyor to said testing stations on said turret; and an output conveyor rotatable in the first direction, the parts being transferred from said testing stations on said turret to said output conveyor. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising a second controller for controlling operation of said input conveyor, said turret, and said output conveyor based on the leakage determination by the first controller. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said inductive detector includes an amplification circuit for amplifying the detected leakage current to generate the detection signal. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said voltage generating circuit includes: a high voltage generator; a voltage coil; and a variable resistor coupled between said high voltage generator and said voltage coil, a level of said at least one high voltage pulse signal being adjustable by said variable resistor. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said high voltage generator generates a voltage of about 40 KV. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one high voltage pulse signal has a voltage level ranging from 10 KV to 20 KV. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said first controller includes a programmable logic controller (PLC) for comparing the detection signal with the reference signal and generating a test result signal based on said comparison. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein said first controller includes a monostable trigger circuit and a plurality of optical couplers. 14. A method for detecting leakage of an electrically non-conductive part, comprising the steps of: generating at least one high voltage pulse signal; applying said at least one high voltage pulse signal to a non-conductive part positioned between first and second probes of at least one testing station; measuring the amount of electrical coupling by inductively detecting electrical leakage current from one of the first and second probes and generating a detection signal; and comparing the detection signal with a reference signal to detect leaks in non-conductive parts. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said step of generating at least one high voltage pulse signal further includes the step of visually indicating generation of said at least one high voltage pulse signal. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein in said visually indicating step, an electric arc between metal bars of a spark gap member is used as a visual indicator. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said step of generating at least one high voltage pulse signal includes the step of adjusting the level of said at least one high voltage pulse signal using a variable resistor. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein said step of generating at least one high voltage pulse signal includes the step of generating a voltage pulse signal having a voltage level ranging from 10 KV to 20 KV. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein said comparing step includes the step of controlling a pulse duration of the detection signal. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein said applying step includes the steps of: providing a turret having a plurality of said testing stations, each testing station having first and second probes; moving the parts to the testing stations using an input conveyor; and moving the parts away from the testing stations using an output conveyor. 