A robotic apparatus for a printing press transports components between the press and a staging or make-ready area so that components can be prepared for a new press run off-line from the press. The robotic apparatus includes a pair of lifting assemblies which are movable horizontally between the press and a support frame in the make-ready area. Each of the lifting assemblies includes a vertically movable lift mechanism, and each lift mechanism includes a plurality of lifting cups for engaging the ends of the components of the press which are to moved. The lifting cups can be operated independently, so that desired components can be moved from any printing deck to any position on the support frame. The press components which can be moved include a plate cylinder and a carriage assembly. The carriage assembly includes a frame, an anilox roll assembly mounted in the frame, and an ink container mounted on the frame.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic apparatus for a press having a pair of rolls, each of the rolls having first and second ends, comprising a first lift assembly adjacent the first end of the rolls, a second lift assembly adjacent the second end of the rolls, each of the lift assemblies including a frame and a pick-up carriage mounted on the frame for vertical movement, each pick-up carriage including a pair of lifting devices and means for extending and retracting each lifting device, means for raising and lowering the pick-up carriage on the frame, whereby lifting devices which are extended can engage the end of a roll and lifting devices which are retracted do not engage the end of a roll, and means for moving the lift assemblies in a first horizontal direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 including a pair of support frames having a plurality of staging positions for supporting sets of first and second rolls, each of the lift assemblies being movable in said first horizontal direction to a position adjacent one of the support frames. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 including means for moving the lift assemblies in a second horizontal direction. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the support frame includes a plurality of staging positions for supporting ink carriages and each of the pick-up carriages includes a third lifting device for engaging an ink carriage. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said extending and retracting means comprises a pneumatic cylinder for each lifting device whereby each lifting device can be extended and retracted independently. 6. A robotic apparatus for a printing press having a plurality of printing decks, each of the printing decks including a plate cylinder and a carriage assembly, each carriage assembly including a carriage and an anilox roll removably mounted on the carriage, each of the plate cylinder, carriage, and anilox roll having first and second ends, comprising: a first lift assembly adjacent the first ends of the plate cylinder, carriage, and anilox rolls, a second lift assembly adjacent the second ends of the plate cylinder, carriage, and anilox roll, each lift assembly including a frame and a pick-up carriage mounted on the frame for vertical movement and means for raising and lowering the pick-up carriage on the frame, each pick-up carriage including a first lifting cup adapted to engage an end of a plate cylinder, a second lifting cup adapted to engage an end of an anilox roll, and a third lifting cup adapted to engage an end of a carriage assembly, and means for extending and retracting each of the lifting cups independently whereby the lifting cups can lift all three of the plate cylinder, anilox roll and carriage assembly or can lift the anilox roll and the carriage assembly and not the plate cylinder or can lift either the plate cylinder or the anilox roll. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 in which said extending and retracting means for each lifting cup comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 8. A method of preparing a flexographic press for a new printing run, the flexographic press including a plurality of color decks, each of the color decks including a plate cylinder and a carriage assembly, each carriage assembly including an ink carriage and an anilox roll removably mounted on the ink carriage, comprising the steps of: mounting plate cylinders and carriage assemblies for a new printing run in a staging area, preparing the plate cylinders and the carriage assemblies in the staging area for the new printing run while the press is running, when the press is stopped, moving the plate cylinder and the carriage assembly from at least one of the color decks to the staging area, and moving a plate cylinder and a carriage assembly from the staging area to said at least one color deck. 9. The method of claim 8 including the step of mounting the plate cylinders and the carriage assemblies for the new printing run on a pair of support frames in the staging area. 10. The method of claim 8 in which the staging area includes a plurality of locations for plate cylinders and for carriage assemblies, and moving the plate cylinder from one of the color decks to one of said locations and moving the carriage assemblies from said one color deck to another of said locations. 11. The method of claim 8 including the step of removing the anilox roll from one of the carriage assemblies on the press, moving said anilox roll to the staging area, and moving an anilox roll from the staging area to said one carriage assembly. 12. A carriage assembly for a color deck of a flexographic press comprising: a frame, means for mounting the frame on a flexographic press, an anilox roll removably mounted on the frame, and an ink container mounted on the frame for supplying ink to the anilox roll. 13. The carriage assembly of claim 12 in which the anilox roll includes a pair of axially extending journals and the mounting means comprises a pair of shafts on the frame which extend parallel to said journals. 14. The carriage assembly of claim 13 including a pair of journal caps on the frame for removably supporting the journals of the anilox roll. 