A vehicle assembly tool includes a base and a frame pivotably coupled to the base. The frame is configured for holding a plurality of vehicle parts to be welded together. A motor is coupled to the frame via a gear system to move the frame relative to the base. Per the present disclosure, the base can be juxtaposed with a plurality of robotic welders, each having an end effector with six degrees of freedom, and the frame then moved relative to the base to essentially provide a seventh degree of freedom for welding the parts together. Also, the frame can be programmed to return, after welding, to one of several user-defined load positions, each of which load positions can be tailored to a respective individual for facilitating ergonomic loading of parts into the frame by the particular individual.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool for holding a vehicle part in juxtaposition with at least one robotic welder having a plurality of degrees of freedom, comprising: a base; a frame movably coupled to the base and configured for holding the vehicle part; and a motor couple e frame for moving the frame with the held vehicle part relative to the base between a first orientation relative to the welder and a second orientation relative to the welder. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein the frame includes a plurality of clamps for engaging the part. 3. The tool of claim 2, wherein the frame includes a bottom edge, and the frame is coupled to the base about an axis parallel to the bottom edge. 4. The tool of claim 3, wherein the axis is substantially collinear with the bottom edge, and the frame is pivotably coupled to the base. 5. The tool of claim 3, wherein the axis is distanced from the bottom edge, and the frame is rotatably coupled to the base. 6. The tool of claim 3, further comprising a gear system for intercoupling the motor and the frame. 7. The tool of claim 6, wherein the gear system includes a frame gear associated with the frame and at least one reduction gear coupled to the motor and to the frame gear. 8. The tool of claim 3, further comprising at least one flexible belt for intercoupling the frame and motor. 9. The tool of claim 4, further comprising a track for slideably supporting the base thereon. 10. A vehicle assembly system, comprising: at least one robotic welder including an end effector having a plurality of degrees of freedom; a base positioned adjacent the welder; a frame movably engaged with the base for movement between first and second orientations relative to the welder; and moving means coupled to the frame to move the frame relative to the base. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the moving means includes an electric motor and a gear system intercoupling the motor and frame. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the frame includes a bottom edge, and the frame is coupled to the base about an axis parallel to and collinear with the bottom edge, such that the frame is pivotably coupled to the base. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the gear system includes a frame gear associated with the frame and at least one reduction gear coupled to the motor and to the frame gear. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein the moving means includes a motor and at least one flexible belt for intercoupling the frame and motor. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising a track for slideably supporting the base thereon. 16. A method of assembling the vehicle, comprising the steps of: movably coupling a frame to a base; positioning a part in the frame; juxtaposing the base with a robotic welder having an effector movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and orienting the frame with the held vehicle part at one or more of a selectable number of orientations relative to the welder. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising moving the base translationally relative to the welder along a track. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the orienting step is accomplished by pivoting the frame relative to the base. 