A multi-paned fenestration unit in which the glass panes are manufactured directly into the support structure without first manufacturing an insulated glass unit. The support structure is designed to provide the structural support for the glass panes without a separate spacer.
Claims We claim: 1. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; and a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the second glass pane, wherein the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane is structurally supported by the second receiving surface. 2. The fenestration unit of claim 1, wherein the first glass pane is attached to the first receiving surface by a first secondary sealant and the second glass pane is attached to the second receiving surface by a second secondary sealant. 3. The fenestration unit of claim 2 wherein the support structure further comprises an interior surface, between the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface, wherein there is a space between the first glass pane and the second glass pane, and the fenestration unit further comprises a vapor barrier located adjacent to the interior surface of the support structure to prevent outgassing from the support structure into the space. 4. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the first secondary sealant and the second secondary sealant are a silicone sealant. 5. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to the interior surface of the support structure by an adhesive. 6. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the vapor barrier is made of metal. 7. The fenestration unit of claim 6 wherein the vapor barrier is stainless steel. 8. The fenestration unit of claim 6 wherein the vapor barrier is aluminum. 9. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the vapor barrier is a coating that is sprayed onto the interior surface of the support structure. 10. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the vapor barrier is plastic. 11. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the vapor barrier is ceramic. 12. The fenestration unit of claim 3 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface. 13. The fenestration unit of claim 12 wherein a first primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the first glass pane and a second primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the second glass pane. 14. The fenestration unit of claim 13 wherein the first primary sealant and the second primary sealant are polyisobutylene. 15. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; and a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane, and a first secondary sealant located between the first receiving surface and the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane, and a second secondary sealant located between the second receiving surface and the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane, wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane. 16. The fenestration unit of claim 15 wherein the first secondary sealant and the second secondary sealant are a silicone sealant. 17. The fenestration unit of claim 15 wherein the first receiving surface comprises a generally flat portion and a lip which protrudes from the flat portion thereby creating a gap between the first glass pane and the flat portion of the first receiving surface wherein the first secondary sealant is substantially contained within the gap. 18. The fenestration unit of claim 15 wherein the second receiving surface comprises a generally flat portion and a stop which protrudes from the flat portion and is generally perpendicular to the flat portion thereby creating a gap between the second glass pane and the flat portion of the second receiving surface wherein the second secondary sealant is substantially contained within the gap. 19. The fenestration unit of claim 15 wherein the support structure further comprises an interior surface, between the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface, wherein there is a space between the first glass pane and the second glass pane, and the fenestration unit further comprises a vapor barrier located adjacent to the interior surface of the support structure to prevent outgassing from the support structure into the space. 20. The fenestration unit of claim 19 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to the interior surface by an adhesive. 21. The fenestration unit of claim 19 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to at least a portion of the first receiving surface and at least a portion of the second receiving surface. 22. The fenestration unit of claim 21 wherein a first primary sealant is located between the vapor barrier and the first glass pane and a second primary sealant s located between the vapor barrier and the second glass pane. 23. The fenestration unit of claim 22 wherein the first primary sealant and the second primary sealant are polyisobutylene. 24. The fenestration unit of claim 23 wherein the first receiving surface further comprises a stop which protrudes from the flat portion and is generally perpendicular to the flat portion thereby separating the first primary sealant from the first secondary sealant. 25. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; and a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the second glass pane, wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported solely at the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane. 26. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; and a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the first glass pane, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported at the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane; and a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the second glass pane, wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported at the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane, wherein there is no spacer between the first glass pane and the second glass pane. 