Sequencing by Hybridization (SBH) methods and apparatus employing subdivided filters for discrete multiple probe analysis of multiple samples may be used for DNA identification and for DNA sequencing. Partitioned filters are prepared. Samples are affixed to sections of partitioned filters and each sector is probed with a single probe or a multiplexed probe for hybridization scoring. Hybridization data is analyzed for probe complementarity, partial sequencing by SBH or complete sequencing by SBH.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for analyzing nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: arraying a first plurality of nucleic acid segments on a first sector of a substrate; disposing a second plurality of nucleic acid segments on a second sector of the substrate; introducing a barrier to movement of nucleic acid by applying a direction-switching electrical field perpendicular to the plane of the sectors to prevent mixing of nucleic acids between the sectors; exposing, under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the first plurality of nucleic acid segments to a first hybridization probe in the first sector, the first hybridization probe being shorter than one from among the first plurality of nucleic acid segments, to the plurality of nucleic acid segments; incubating under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, a second hybridization probe in the second sector, the second hybridization probe being shorter than a segment from among the second plurality of nucleic acid segments and the second hybridization probe being different in sequence from the first hybridization probe; detecting hybridization of a hybridization probe to a nucleic acid segment; and analyzing the result. 2. A method for analyzing nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: arraying a first plurality of nucleic acid segments on a first sector of a substrate; disposing a second plurality of nucleic acid segments on a second sector of the substrate; introducing a barrier to movement of nucleic acid by applying an electric field; exposing, under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the first plurality of nucleic acid segments to a first hybridization probe in the first sector, the first hybridization probe being shorter than one from among the first plurality of nucleic acid segments, to the plurality of nucleic acid segments; incubating under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, a second hybridization probe in the second sector, the second hybridization probe being shorter than a segment from among the second plurality of nucleic acid segments and the second hybridization probe being different in sequence from the first hybridization probe; detecting hybridization of a hybridization probe to a nucleic acid segment; and analyzing the result. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the electric field is direction switching. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the electric field is applied perpendicular to the plane of the substrate. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the electric field is applied to prevent mixing of nucleic acids between the sectors. 6. A method for analyzing nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: arraying a plurality of nucleic acid segments on a sector of a substrate; introducing a barrier to movement of nucleic acid by applying a direction-switching electrical field perpendicular to the plane of the sector to prevent movement of nucleic acids; incubating under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the plurality of nucleic acid segments with a hybridization probe in the sector, the hybridization probe being shorter than one from among the plurality of nucleic acid segments, to the plurality of nucleic acid segments; detecting hybridization of a hybridization probe to a nucleic acid segment; and analyzing the result. 7. A method for analyzing nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: arraying a plurality of nucleic acid segments on a sector of a substrate; introducing a barrier to movement of nucleic acid by applying an electric field; incubating under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the plurality of nucleic acid segments with a hybridization probe in the sector, the hybridization probe being shorter than one from among the plurality of nucleic acid segments, to the plurality of nucleic acid segments; detecting hybridization of a hybridization probe to a nucleic acid segment; and analyzing the result. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the electric field is direction switching. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the electric field is applied perpendicular to the plane of the substrate. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the electric field is applied to prevent movement of nucleic acids. 11. A method for analyzing nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: arraying a plurality of hybridization probes on a sector of a substrate; introducing a barrier to movement of nucleic acid by applying a direction-switching electrical field perpendicular to the plane of the sector to prevent movement of nucleic acids; incubating under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the plurality of hybridization probes in the sector to a nucleic acid segment, the hybridization probes being shorter than the nucleic acid segment; detecting hybridization of hybridization probes with the nucleic acid segment; and analyzing the result. 12. A method for analyzing nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: arraying a plurality of hybridization probes on a sector of a substrate; introducing a barrier to movement of nucleic acid by applying an electric field; incubating under conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the plurality of hybridization probes in the sector to a nucleic acid segment, the hybridization probes being shorter than the nucleic acid segment; detecting hybridization of hybridization probes to the nucleic acid segment; and analyzing the result. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the electric field is direction switching. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the electric field is applied perpendicular to the plane of the substrate. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the electric field is applied to prevent movement of nucleic acids. 