A calibration tool for calibrating the leveling and tilting of a wafer transporting blade and a method for using such tool are provided. The calibration tool is constructed by a body portion and a leg portion each having a surface that are provided with a multiplicity of calibration lines facing each other such that a two-dimensional calibration can be performed on a blade simultaneously by positioning the blade between the body portion and the leg portion. The capability of measuring a plane, i.e., leveling and tilting, simultaneously is a great benefit made possible by the present invention method and apparatus.
Claims The embodiment of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade comprising: a body portion having generally a rectangular configuration comprising two extended surfaces of a first inner surface and an outer surface joined together by four side surfaces, said first inner surface having a multiplicity or straight lines marked thereon parallel with a bottom edge of said first inner surface having a preset spacing between said straight lines not larger than 1 mm, and a leg portion unitarily connected to and extending first outwardly from said first inner surface forming a horizontal section and then downwardly to a bottom surface that is on the same plane with a bottom surface of said body portion, said leg portion having a second inner surface connecting perpendicularly to said first inner surface of the body portion, said second inner surface is marked on said vertical section with a second multiplicity of straight lines parallel with a bottom surface of said vertical section of the leg portion, said second multiplicity of straight lines being marked in the same scale as said first multiplicity of straight lines. 2. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said second multiplicity of straight lines are marked in the same scale and corresponds to a same zero line of said first multiplicity of straight lines on said first inner surface. 3. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein the blade calibrated is a wafer transporting blade. 4. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said blade calibrated is a wafer loading/unloading blade for a wafer cassette. 5. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said first and second multiplicities of straight lines are scribed into said first and second inner surfaces, respectively. 6. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said tool is made of a metallic material comprising aluminum and stainless steel. 7. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said preset spacing between said straight lines is about 0.5 mm. 8. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein a top surface of said body portion is on the same plane with a top surface of said leg portion. 9. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said tool having a contour of an upside-down U when viewed in a front view. 10. A tool for calibrating the leveling of a blade according to claim 1, wherein said tool is capable of calibrating the leveling and tilting of a blade simultaneously in two dimensions. 