A cassette for supporting substantially planar objects such as photomasks, glass plates or semiconductor wafers during processing. The cassette is composed of bars connected at each end to an endpiece. Arms which form part of the endpiece are hinged to permit the side bars of the cassette to move inwardly and outwardly from one another when objects are inserted in the cassette. A bridge can connect an upper portion of the arms. The bridge can be used to lift the cassette and cause flexing of the cassette to ensure better retention while the cassette is being lifted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of supporting a semiconductor wafer using a wafer cassette, the method comprising: loading at least one wafer in a wafer cassette, said at least one wafer being supported by a lower support bar on which the wafer rests, and at least two side bars positioned laterally of the lower support bar, and said side bars being hingedly connected to said lower support bar; lifting the cassette and wafer from a resting surface using a bridge which connects said side bars and flexes to pull the side bars towards one another as the cassette is lifted; depositing the cassette and wafer in a wafer processing tank. 2. A method of supporting substantially planar objects in a cassette, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a compliant cassette having a pair of flexible end assemblies and a pair of lateral support members extending between the end assemblies; (b) positioning a plurality of planar objects in the cassette by positioning an edge of each planar object into contact with each of the lateral support members; and (c) exerting a lifting force on lateral support members, said lifting force resulting in inward lateral movement of the lateral support members to clamp the planar objects. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the lifting force exerted in step (c) is applied to the end assemblies. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein: the cassette provided in step (a) further includes a central support member extending between the end assemblies, the central support member positioned central to the lateral support members; and step (b) includes positioning the edge of each planar object into contact with the central support member. 5. The method of claim 1, further including the steps of: (d) providing a support for the cassette; and (e) positioning each of the lateral support members against the support, said positioning maintaining clamping against the objects. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the support provided in step (d) is located within a process vessel for use in immersing the objects in a process fluid. 7. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: providing a processing tank having an interior and a pair of spaced apart shelves in the tank interior; after step (c), positioning the cassette in the processing tank, with each of the lateral support members on a shelf, said positioning maintaining clamping against the objects. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein: the providing step further provides a tank bottom and a center support bar on the cassette, the center support bar extending between the end assemblies and positioned between the lateral support bars, and the positioning step includes orienting the cassette such that the center support bar has a non-contacting relationship with the shelves and the tank bottom. 