An induction hardening apparatus for inductively heating and quench hardening a crankshaft includes an arrangement of two workstations similarly configured and a robotic device indexing the crankshaft from a first workstation to a second workstation. The induction hardening apparatus is designed with a single induction coil located at the first workstation for the sequential induction heating and quench hardening of the pins of the crankshaft. At the second workstation, a single induction coil is used for the bearing surfaces of the crankshaft. One feature of the present invention is that the induction coils do not contact the surfaces of the crankshaft which are being inductively heated and quench hardened. Crankshaft dimensions and geometry are prograrmned into servodrive systems which move the corresponding coil in X and Y directions accurately tracing the orbit or path of each pin and each bearing surface. Another feature of the present invention is the use of an offset 180 degree coil which provides improved heating patterns in less time than traditional 90 degree coils.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An induction coil assembly for induction hardening of a portion of a workpiece, said induction coil assembly comprising: a coil having a top surface, an underside surface, and an inner coil curvature disposed between said top surface and said underside surface, said inner coil curvature extending approximately 180 degrees around a coil axis, said coil further including a side surface adjacent a first end of said inner coil curvature and extending between said top surface and said underside surface; and a support arm connected to said side surface and providing an electrical connection between said coil and a source of electrical current. 2. The induction coil assembly of claim 1 wherein said support arm includes a first conductive section, a second conductive section, and an electrical insulator positioned between said first and second conductive sections. 3. The induction coil assembly of claim 2 wherein said first conductive section is electrically connected to said top surface and said second conductive section is electrically connected to said underside surface. 4. The induction coil assembly of claim 3 wherein said first conductive section includes a liquid flow passageway and wherein said second conductive section includes a liquid flow passageway. 5. An induction coil assembly for use in the induction hardening of a portion of a workpiece, said induction coil assembly comprising: a coil having an inner coil curvature extending approximately 180 degrees around a coil axis, said inner coil curvature having a first end portion and a second end portion, said coil further including a first conductive surface and a second conductive surface and a connecting surface extending between said first conductive surface and said second conductive surface, said connecting surface being adjacent said second end portion; and a support arm attached to said coil at a location which is adjacent to said first end portion, said support arm including a first section for conducting current to said coil, a second section for conducting current from said coil, and electrical insulator means positioned between said first section and said second section, said first section being electrically connected to said first conductive surface of said coil and said second section being electrically connected to said second conductive surface of said coil. 6. The induction coil assembly of claim 5 wherein the first section of said support arm includes a liquid flow passageway and wherein the second section of said support arm includes a liquid flow passageway. 7. The induction coil assembly of claim 6 wherein said support arm includes a connection block portion which is constructed and arranged to connect to a source of electrical current. 8. The induction coil assembly of claim 7 wherein said inner coil curvature has a generally cylindrical geometry over its circumferential length. 9. An induction coil assembly for use in the induction hardening of a portion of a workpiece, said induction coil assembly comprising: a coil having an inner coil curvature extending approximately 180 degrees around a coil axis, said inner coil curvature having a first end portion and a second end portion, said coil further including a first conductive surface and a second conductive surface and a first connecting surface extending between said first conductive surface and said second conductive surface, said first connecting surface being adjacent said first end portion, said coil further including a third conductive surface and a fourth conductive surface and a second connecting surface extending between said third conductive surface and said fourth conductive surface, said second connecting surface being adjacent said second end portion; and a support arm attached to said coil at a location which is between said first end portion and said second end portion, said support arm including a first section for conducting current to said coil, a second section for conducting current from said coil, and electrical insulator means positioned between said first section and said second section, said first section being electrically connected to said first conductive surface and said second section being electrically connected to said fourth conductive surface, said second conductive surface being electrically connected to said third conductive surface. 10. The induction coil assembly of claim 9 wherein the coil further includes a first electrical insulator positioned between said first conductive surface and said second conductive surface and a second electrical insulator positioned between said third conductive surface and said fourth conductive surface. 11. The induction coil assembly of claim 10 wherein said inner coil curvature defines a plurality of quench apertures. 