An integral unit for use in testing semiconductor components. The unit is designed to manipulate either packaged semiconductor components or semiconductor wafers and present them to a test head. It provides significant space savings because it replaces the need for separate prober, handler and tester units. The integrated unit includes a positioning mechanism with a tool plate that can be changed to grasp either a semiconductor wafer or a tray of semiconductor components. The tool plate uses a vacuum plate. To hold a tray of semiconductor parts, the vacuum plate has numerous independently operable holes. Each hole is positioned behind one semiconductor component and can be engaged or released separately so that the components can be sorted into separate output bins. To hold a wafer, the tool plate has an extendible tongue member that can be inserted into a stack of semiconductor wafers to pick up one wafer in the stack. One disclosed positioning mechanism is a hexapod unit, which, due to its light weight, allows fast and accurate positioning of the semiconductor devices. Multiple positioning mechanisms are used in some instances to increase throughput.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for processing a plurality of semiconductor devices held in a tray, comprising: a) a base; b) an input zone in the base adapted to hold the tray; c) a work station, coupled to the base, at which semiconductor devices are processed; d) a positioning mechanism having a distal portion and a coupling between the base and the distal portion, the coupling being movable with a range of motion encompassing at least the input zone and the work station and being further movable with degrees of freedom allowing the distal portion to be tilted relative to the input zone; and e) a tray pickup, connected to the distal portion of the positioning mechanism, the tray pickup including means for selectively releasing semiconductor devices without releasing the tray. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising an output zone and the rage of motion of the coupling encompasses the output zone. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the tray pickup comprises a vacuum drawn through a surface having openings therein. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the coupling of the positioning mechanism comprises: a) a platform disposed at the distal portion of the positioning mechanism; b) a plurality of struts, each having a first end and a second end with the first end of each strut rotatably mounted to the platform and the second end of the strut being rotatably coupled to the base, the length of each of the struts being independently adjustable. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising: a) an elongated member attached to and extending from the base; and b) a movable mounting coupling the positioning mechanism to the elongated member, thereby movably coupling the positioning mechanism to the base. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a linear bearing movably coupling the positioning mechanism to the base. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the movable mounting is a rotating bearing. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the positioning mechanism additionally comprises: a) a second positioning member; b) a mounting structure having at least a first side and a second side; and c) a rotary mounting connecting the mounting structure to the base, wherein the positioning member is mounted to the first side and the second positioning mechanism is mounted to the second side. 9. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the tray pickup with a vacuum drawn through a surface having openings therein comprises a surface with a plurality of openings therein with mechanisms to independently control the vacuum drawn though selected ones of the plurality of openings. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a camera mounted in the base and means for controlling the apparatus to pick up from the input tray of semiconductor components, move them near the camera, process the image from the camera to determine the relative positions of the semiconductor components and present the semiconductor components to the work station. 11. Apparatus for processing semiconductor devices in which the semiconductor components are moved from an input zone to a work station for processing, comprising: a) a base structure; b) a work station; c) a first structure comprising a first plate and a second plate and a plurality of extendible struts coupling the first plate to the second plate, the first plate being coupled to the base structure; and d) first means, attached to the second plate, for grasping multiple semiconductor devices in an array; and e) means for controlling the first structure to move the array of semiconductor devices in a step-wise fashion to sequentially present semiconductor devices in the array to the work station for processing. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the means for grasping comprises a vacuum plate. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 additionally comprising a rotary bearing and wherein the first plate is coupled to the base structure through the rotary bearing. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 additionally comprising a linear bearing and the first plate is coupled to the base structure through the linear bearing. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the means for grasping comprises means for grasping either a tray of semiconductor components or a semiconductor wafer. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the means for grasping comprises a vacuum plate. 17. The apparatus of claim 11 additionally comprising: a) a second structure, comprising a first plate and a second plate and a plurality of extendible struts coupling the first plate to the second plate coupled to the base; and b) second means for grasping semiconductor devices attached to the second plate of the second structure. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the first structure and the second structure are rotatably coupled to the base structure. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 additionally comprising: a) a post attached to the base structure and extending along a first axis; b) a mounting structure having at least two sides; c) a rotary joint coupling the mounting structure to the post, the joint rotating about the first axis; and d) wherein the first structure is connected to one of the sides of the mounting structure and the second structure is connected to the other of the sides of the mounting structure. 20. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein each strut of the first structure comprises: a) a first tube having inner walls defining a recess; b) a coil lining the inner inner walls of the first tube; c) a second tube having outer walls, the second tube inserted into the recess in the first tube; and d) a magnet on the outer walls of the second tube. 21. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein each strut of the first structure includes a linear electric motor. 22. The method of operating an apparatus comprising a base; an input zone in the base adapted to hold a plurality of semiconductors arranged in a tray; a work station, coupled to the base, at which semiconductor devices are processed; a positioning mechanism, coupled to the base, having a distal portion movable with respect to the base with multiple degrees of freedom, the range of motion of the distal portion encompassing at least the input zone and the work station; and a tool plate connected to the distal portion of the positioning mechanism, the tool plate comprising means for grasping a tray of semiconductor devices, comprising the steps of: a) attaching a tool plate to the distal portion of the positioning mechanism; b) placing a tray having semiconductor components thereon in the input zone; c) picking up the tray with the tool plate; d) actuating the positioning mechanism to move the tray to the work station and presenting semiconductor components on the tray to the work station; e) actuating the positioning mechanism to move the tray to a first position away from the work station; f) releasing a first portion of the chips in the tray; g) actuating the positioning mechanism to move the tray to a second position away from the work station; h) releasing a second portion of the chips in the tray. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of placing a tray in the input zone comprises placing a stack of trays in the input zone. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the tool plate comprises a plurality of vacuum ports and the steps of releasing a first portion and a second portion of the chips comprises releasing the vacuum on selected ones of the vacuum ports. 25. Apparatus for processing semiconductor wafers having a plurality of modules, each for processing a wafer, said apparatus comprising: a) a movable base; b) a hexapod, having a first platform and a second platform joined by a plurality of struts, the first platform being attached to the movable base; and c) a tool plate adapted to hold a semiconductor wafer attached to the second platform wherein the tool plate comprises: i) a plate with an upper surface; ii) means for extending from the tool plate and grasping a semiconductor wafer and retracting to draw the semiconductor wafer to the upper surface of the plate. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the movable base comprises a linear bearing allowing translation of the hexapod relative to the plurality of modules. 27. The method of operating an apparatus comprising a base; an input zone in the base adapted to hold an array of semiconductor devices; an output zone adapted to receive a plurality of semiconductors held in a tray; a work station, coupled to the base, at which semiconductor devices are processed; a positioning mechanism, coupled to the base, having a distal portion movable with respect to the base with multiple degrees of freedom, the range of motion of the distal portion encompassing at least the input zone, the work station and the output zone; and a means for grasping the tray of semiconductor devices connected to the distal portion of the positioning mechanism, comprising the steps of: a) placing a tray of semiconductor devices in the input zone; b) picking up the tray with the tool plate; c) actuating the positioning mechanism to move the tray of semiconductor devices to the work station and presenting semiconductor devices within the tray sequentially to the work station; d) actuating the positioning mechanism to move the tray of semiconductor devices to the output zone. 28. The method of operating an apparatus of claim 27 wherein the step of presenting semiconductor devices sequentially to the work station comprises moving the tray in a step-wise fashion. 29. The method of operating an apparatus of claim 27 wherein the step of presenting semiconductor devices within the tray sequentially to the work station comprises presenting groups of semiconductor devices to the work station simultaneously. 