A method for measuring intensity-type polarization non-reciprocity (PNR) bias error in an interferometric fiber optic gyroscope (IFOG) using birefringence modulation. The counter-propagating waves in the fiber optic loop of the IFOG are modulated with a slowly varying voltage signal, such as a triangle wave, ramp or sine wave signal, to cause birefringence modulation. A peak-to-peak amplitude of a resultant output signal is measured to determine the intensity-type PNR bias error of the IFOG.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring intensity-type polarization non-reciprocity (PNR) error in an interferometric fiber optic gyroscope (IFOG) having a fiber optic loop, the method comprising the steps of: modulating light waves input to the fiber optic loop to cause birefringence modulation; and measuring a peak-to-peak amplitude of a resultant output signal produced by the birefringence modulation, wherein the peak-to-peak amplitude is a measure of the intensity-type PNR error. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of modulating comprises modulating the light waves with a slowly varying voltage signal. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the slowly varying voltage signal is a ramp function. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the slowly varying voltage signal is a triangle wave signal. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the resultant output signal is a sine wave. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the slowly varying voltage signal is periodic. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the period of the slowly varying voltage signal is longer relative to a period of a square wave signal used to modulate the light waves to determine a rate of rotation of the gyroscope. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the period of the slowly varying voltage signal is 1 cycle per second. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the period of the slowly varying voltage signal is 50-60 cycles per second. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the period of the slowly varying voltage signal is longer than a full period of the resultant output signal. 11. A method for measuring intensity-type polarization non-reciprocity (PNR) error in an interferometric fiber optic gyroscope (IFOG), the IFOG having a fiber optic loop injected with counter-propagating light waves modulated by a square wave signal, the method comprising the steps of: modulating the counter-propagating light waves input to the fiber optic loop to cause birefringence modulation; and measuring a peak-to-peak amplitude of a resultant output signal produced by the birefringence modulation, wherein the peak-to-peak amplitude is a measure of the intensity-type PNR error. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of modulating comprises modulating the light waves with a slowly varying voltage signal. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the slowly varying voltage signal is a ramp function. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the slowly varying voltage signal is a triangle wave signal. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the resultant output signal is a sine wave. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the slowly varying voltage signal is periodic. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the period of the slowly varying voltage signal is longer relative to a period of the square wave signal. 18. A method for measuring intensity-type polarization non-reciprocity (PNR) error in an interferometric fiber optic gyroscope (IFOG), the IFOG having a fiber optic loop injected with counter-propagating light waves modulated by a square wave signal, the method comprising the steps of: modulating the counter-propagating light waves input to the fiber optic loop with a triangle wave signal having a longer period relative to the period of the square wave signal; and measuring a peak-to-peak amplitude of a resultant output sine wave signal, wherein the peak-to-peak amplitude is a measure of the intensity-type PNR error. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the period of the triangle wave signal is longer than a full period of the resultant output sine wave signal. 