The invention relates to a process and apparatus for manufacturing hollow sections with cross-sectional expansions in end portions thereof. A hollow blank is widened and calibrated by internal high pressure forming by means of a forming tool receiving it, and, after the calibration, is separated in the area of the widening while forming two hollow sections with cross-sectionally widened ends facing one another in the separated position. In order manufacture from a hollow blank hollow sections with the lowest possible reject rate and therefore in a reliable process, which are cross-sectionally widened on the end side by means of high degree for forming, the blank is widened while the forming tool is open and is simultaneously upset to form a rotationally symmetrical bulging hollow section by means of a pressure force which is axially directed from the outside to at least one of the two blank ends.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for manufacturing at least one hollow section having cross-sectional expansions at ends thereof by using a forming tool that consists of two separable halves which form two hollow sections with cross-sectionally widened ends facing one another, comprising the steps of: widening and simultaneously upsetting at least one hollow blank in a continuous operation with an outside axially directed pressure force before the forming tool is in a closed condition to form a rotationally symmetrical bulging preform which approximates a desired end form of the at least one hollow section, the bulging preform being mirror-symmetrical relative to a transverse center axis of the at least one hollow section; and, in the closed condition of the forming tool, calibrating the formed blank obtained in the expansion upsetting operation with an internal pressure above an internal pressure during the widening and upsetting step to provide a final form of the hollow section pressed completely against sinkings in the two halves of the forming tool. 2. Process according to claim 1, wherein the at least one hollow section is separated in a transverse center relative to a longitudinal dimension of the hollow section after removal from the forming tool in an area of the bulging preform. 3. Process according to claim 1, wherein the step of calibrating includes axially pushing wall material of the at least one blank to a bulging area thereof. 4. Process according to claim 1, wherein the step of widening includes generally a conically widened bulging area on the at least one blank. 5. Process according to claim 4, wherein the at least one hollow section is separated in the bulging area to produce individual similarly shaped hollow sections as connection stubs for catalyst housings. 6. Device for producing at least one hollow section having cross-sectional expansions at ends thereof, comprising an internal high pressure forming tool having two tool halves configured to be relatively movable in a vertical direction and to rest on one another in a closed position, the internal high pressure forming tool having (i) a sinking formed by mutually opposing faces of the two tool halves for entry of at least one hollow oblong blank to be formed and radial recesses that deviate from a contour of the at least one blank, (ii) a fluid pressure generating system for applying a high pressure to widen the at least one blank after introduction of a pressure fluid into the at least one blank (iii) a device for axial fluid-high-pressure-tight sealing of the sinking, and (iv) an externally arranged separating device which, in the area of the widening of the at least one blank, is arranged to separate the at least one blank into two hollow sections with cross-sectionally widened ends, wherein the separation plane of the two tool halves extends transversely to a longitudinal course of the sinking which is configured to be rotationally symmetrically and is spaced away from a centrally extending mirror plane through the radial recesses forming an expansion area of the sinking consisting of two hollow sinking parts to the upper tool half offset in such a manner that it forms a transition from a hollow-cylindrical section of the sinking part starting from the separation plane to a tapered section which adjoins the sinking part; the two tool halves each have a receiving device in which, in an open position of the forming tool, one end respectively of an entered blank is completely enclosed and held in a pressure-tight manner, the receiving devices being formed by linearly extending hollow-cylindrical extensions of the sinking and by conically constructed ends of one punch respectively which is displaceably guided in a guide bore penetrating the respective tool half and leading out in the sinking part of the tool half by a drive which is separate with respect to the movable tool half; and the device comprising a means for controlling relative movement of the two tools halves, in which pressure control of fluid pressure generating system is correlated with controlling relative movement such that the two tool halves, starting from the open position of the forming tool in a resulting axial upsetting effect onto the blank which simultaneously expands by internal high pressure, approach one another in a continuous movement until a contact position of the two tool halves is reached which forms the closed position of the forming tool in which the movement control is uncoupled from the pressure control, the fluid pressure generating system for the calibration operation of the expansion-upset hollow section being configured to then generate a fluid pressure which is higher than the fluid pressure during the expansion upsetting. 7. Device according to claim 6, wherein a press slide of a forming press is provided to which the tool half constituting an upper tool half is fastened, the press slide being movable onto a spacing body anchored on a bedplate of the forming press, with the upper tool half taking up a catch position in which the inserted at least one blank is held in the receiving device. 8. Device according to claim 6, wherein a drive is provided to which the tool half constituting a lower tool half is provided the drive being separate with respect to the other tool half and configured to move the lower tool half to carry out strokes. 9. Device according to claim 6, wherein one of the two tool halves is a lower tool half having a punch configured to be driven such that, during an approach of the two tool halves until a contact position on one another is reached, the punch always has the same relative position with respect to the lower tool half, and in the contact position can be displaced relative to the position of the lower tool half. 10. Device according to claim 6, wherein a shape of each sinking part corresponds to a conical connection stub for a catalyst. 11. Device according to claim 6, wherein after one of the two tool halves is a lower tool half having a punch and arranged such that, release of an upper end of a completely formed at least one blank resulting from a stroke movement of the other tool half, the punch of the lower tool half is displaceable into the sinking part of the lower tool half that the at least one blank displaced together therewith is grippable by a removal device. 12. Device according to claim 11, wherein, in a gripping position of the removal device, the punch takes up a withdrawal position in a guide bore in which it is uncoupled from an action upon the completely formed blank forming the hollow section. 13. Device according to claim 11, wherein in an uppermost displacement position of the punch, a lower opening edge of the hollow section formed by the formed blank is arranged in a transition of the receiving device for receiving the sinking part of the lower tool half. 14. Device according to claim 6, wherein the forming tool has a plurality of sinkings which are arranged in parallel to one another and have pertaining receiving devices for respective blanks to be inserted therein. 15. Device according to claim 6, wherein the movement control is assigned to a lower tool half, the control being a characteristic diagram control with pressure-position value pairs stored in the electronic control unit, in which the pressure value of a momentarily generated fluid pressure is adapted to a position value of the position of the lower tool half to be taken up in which the lower tool half can be lifted or lowered depending on the position. 16. Device according to claim 15, wherein the device contains a distance measuring device having a distance generator mounted on a lower tool half, which can be moved in strokes on the one end and is stationary mounted on the other end, and which is coupled with the drive of the lower tool half in such a manner that the positional values emitted by the characteristic diagram control form a measurement of the intensity and direction of the driving force. 17. Device according to claim 6, wherein the lower tool half is controlled in its movements by means of preprogrammed driving values stored in the control unit. 18. Device according to claim 17, wherein the pressure control of the fluid pressure generating system is a characteristic diagram control with position--pressure value pairs stored in the electronic control unit, in which case a position value emitted by a distance measuring device coupled with the drive of the lower tool half and emitted as a function of the momentary driving value and related to the momentary position of the tool half is adapted to a desired pressure value of the fluid pressure to be generated by the fluid pressure generating system, to which desired pressure value the pressure generating system adapts its preceding actual pressure value. 19. Device according to claim 6, wherein a lower tool half is arranged in a stationary manner; and the upper tool half which can be moved in strokes and is fixedly connected with a press slide of a forming press can be moved onto the lower tool half for forming the blank. 20. Device according to claim 6, wherein the punches in the closed position of the forming tool as a function of the calibrating pressure can be displaceably controlled such that they can be guided in a follow-up manner corresponding to the expansion-caused shortening of the blank. 