A process for etching a substrate 25 in an etching chamber 30, and simultaneously cleaning a thin, non-homogeneous, etch residue deposited on the surfaces of the walls 45 and components of the etching chamber 30. In the etching step, process gas comprising etchant gas is used to etch a substrate 25 in the etching chamber 30 thereby depositing etch residue inside the chamber 30. Cleaning gas is added to the process gas for a sufficient time and in a volumetric flow ratio that is sufficiently high, to react with and remove substantially all the etch residue deposited by the process gas. The present method advantageously cleans the etch residue in the chamber 30, during the etching process, and without use of separate cleaning, conditioning, and seasoning process steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating a semiconductor substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in a process zone of a process chamber; (b) introducing into the process zone a process gas comprising a halogen-containing gas and one or more of N.sub.2, HBr, O.sub.2 or He--O.sub.2, and generating a plasma from the process gas to etch the substrate; and (c) adding a burst of cleaning gas to the process gas while the substrate is still being etched, the cleaning gas being provided for a sufficient time, and the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gases being sufficiently high, to react with and remove the etch residue deposited by the process gas. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr, or He--O.sub.2 ; and wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, or SF.sub.6. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning gas is introduced into the process chamber for about 5 to about 100 seconds. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the burst of cleaning gas is introduced into the process chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of about 40 to about 200 sccm for an process chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3. 6. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the etching chamber, the substrate comprising silicon-containing material; and (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the etching chamber to etch the substrate and simultaneously clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising a first halogen-containing gas and a cleaning gas, the cleaning gas comprising a second halogen-containing gas comprising CF.sub.4, in a volumetric flow ratio selected to remove the etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etching process. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of the first halogen-containing gas and cleaning gas is selected to remove substantially all the etch residue generated by etching at least 2000 substrates in the chamber, without performing a separate cleaning step for cleaning the chamber. 8. A method according to claim 6 wherein the process gas comprises Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, and CF.sub.4, and wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 :(Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 9. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the etching chamber, the substrate comprising silicon-containing material; and (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the etching chamber to etch the substrate and simultaneously clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising a halogen-containing gas and a cleaning gas, the cleaning gas comprising SF.sub.6, in a volumetric flow ratio selected to remove substantially all the etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etching process. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of halogen-containing gas and cleaning gas is selected to remove substantially all the etch residue generated by etching at least 2000 substrates in the chamber, without performing a separate cleaning step for cleaning the chamber. 11. A method according to claim 9 wherein the process gas comprises Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, and SF.sub.6, and wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow ratio of SF.sub.6 :(Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 12. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the etching chamber, the substrate comprising silicon-containing material; (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the etching chamber to etch the substrate and simultaneously clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising a first halogen-containing gas and a cleaning gas, the cleaning gas comprising a second halogen-containing gas comprising CF.sub.4 ; and (c) selecting a volumetric flow ratio of the first halogen-containing gas and the cleaning gas to at least partially remove the etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etching process. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of the first halogen-containing gas and the cleaning gas is selected to remove substantially all the etch residue generated by etching at least 2000 substrates in the chamber, without performing a separate cleaning step for cleaning the chamber. 14. A method according to claim 12 wherein the process gas comprises CF.sub.4, Cl.sub.2, and N.sub.2, and wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 :(Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 15. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the etching chamber, the substrate comprising silicon-containing material; and (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the etching chamber to etch the substrate and simultaneously clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising a halogen-containing gas and a cleaning gas, the cleaning gas comprising SF.sub.6 ; and (c) selecting a volumetric flow ratio of the halogen-containing gas and the cleaning gas to at least partially remove the etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etching process. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of halogen-containing gas and cleaning gas is selected to remove substantially all the etch residue generated by etching at least 2000 substrates in the chamber, without performing a separate cleaning step for cleaning the chamber. 17. A method according to claim 15 wherein the process gas comprises SF.sub.6, Cl.sub.2, and N.sub.2, and wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of SF.sub.6 :(Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 18. A method of etching substrates in a chamber, while simultaneously cleaning the chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate having first and second layers, in the chamber; (b) in a first etching stage, introducing a first etchant gas into the chamber and forming a plasma from the first etchant gas to etch the first layer; (c) in a second etching stage, introducing a second etchant gas into the chamber and forming a plasma from the second etchant gas to etch the second layer; and (d) in one of the first and second stages, adding a cleaning gas comprising CF.sub.4 of SF.sub.6 to the first or second etchant gas to form a cleaning plasma that removes the etch residue on the chamber surfaces formed in one of the first and second etching stages. 19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the first and second etchant gases comprise one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr, or He--O.sub.2. 20. A method according to claim 18 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas is selected to remove the etchant residue generated from processing at least 2000 substrates in the chamber, without performing a separate cleaning step for cleaning the chamber. 21. A method according to claim 18 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 22. A method according to claim 18 wherein the cleaning gas is introduced into the etching chamber for about 5 to about 100 seconds. 23. A method of processing a semiconductor substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in a process zone of a process chamber; (b) introducing into the process zone a process gas comprising etchant gas to etch the substrate, and generating a plasma from the process gas to etch the substrate; and (c) adding a burst of cleaning gas comprising CF.sub.4 or SF.sub.6 to the process gas while the substrate is still being etched, the cleaning gas being provided for a sufficient time, and the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gases being sufficiently high, to react with and remove the etch residue deposited by the process gas. 24. A method according to claim 23 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr, or He--O.sub.2. 25. A method according to claim 23 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 26. A method according to claim 23 wherein the cleaning gas is introduced into the process chamber for about 5 to about 100 seconds. 27. A method according to claim 23 wherein the burst of cleaning gas is introduced into the process chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of about 40 to about 200 sccm for an process chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3. 28. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning a chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the chamber; and (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the chamber to simultaneously etch the substrate and clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising etchant gas to etch the substrate thereby depositing etch residue on the chamber surfaces, and cleaning gas to clean the etch residue deposited on the chamber surfaces, the cleaning gas comprising SF.sub.6, and the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas being selected so that the etch residue is removed from the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etch process. 29. A method according to claim 28, wherein step (b) comprises placing a substrate comprising a nitride layer in the chamber and step (c) comprises forming a plasma from process gas to simultaneously etch the nitride layer and clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces. 30. A method according to claim 29, wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising Cl.sub.2. 31. A method according to claim 28, wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising Cl.sub.2 and O.sub.2. 32. A method according to claim 28, wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising Cl.sub.2. 33. A method according to claim 32, wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising one or more of O.sub.2, N.sub.2, and He--O.sub.2. 34. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the etching chamber, the substrate comprising silicon-containing material; and (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the etching chamber to etch the substrate and simultaneously clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising a first halogen-containing gas, an oxygen-containing gas, and a cleaning gas comprising a second halogen containing gas comprising CF.sub.4 or SF.sub.6 in a volumetric flow ratio selected to remove the etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etching process. 35. A method according to claim 34 wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising Cl.sub.2, He--O.sub.2, and CF.sub.4. 36. A method of simultaneously etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate in the etching chamber, the substrate comprising silicon-containing material; and (b) forming a plasma from process gas introduced into the etching chamber to etch the substrate and simultaneously clean etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising a halogen-containing gas, HBr, an oxygen-containing gas, and a cleaning gas in a volumetric flow ratio selected to remove the etch residue formed on the chamber surfaces upon completion of the etching process. 37. A method according to claim 36 wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising Cl.sub.2, HBr, He--O.sub.2, and CF.sub.4. 38. A method according to claim 1 wherein step (b) comprises introducing a process gas comprising Cl.sub.2 and one or more of N.sub.2, HBr, O.sub.2, or He--O.sub.2. 39. A method according to claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide, and silicon nitride. 40. A method according to claim 6 wherein the silicon-containing material comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide, and silicon nitride. 41. A method according to claim 9 wherein the silicon-containing material comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide, and silicon nitride. 42. A method according to claim 12, wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising Cl.sub.2. 43. A method according to claim 42, wherein step (b) comprises forming a plasma from process gas comprising one or more of O.sub.2, N.sub.2, and He--O.sub.2. 