A coordinate measuring machine (CMM), including three spherical base joints, a device for maintaining the base joints in a fixed spaced relation, and six actuator assemblies each having a variable length. Each of the base joints has a first end of two of the six actuator assemblies connected therewith, respectively. A center pole is provided having a first spherical joint connected to a first end thereof and a second spherical joint connected to a second end thereof. A second end of a first one of each of the two actuator assemblies connected to each of the base joints is connected to the first spherical joint of the center pole, and a second end of a second one of each of the two actuator assemblies connected to each of the base joints is connected to the second spherical joint of the center pole, in a manner which forms a hexahedron. The coordinate measuring machine further includes a probe mounted at one end of the center pole and a laser interferometer for determining a change in length of each of the six actuator assemblies upon movement of the probe. A method for initializing the CMM and an improved universal joint having a reference sphere therein for use in the CMM are also disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. For use in a coordinate measuring device, comprising three spherical base joints, means for maintaining said base joints in a fixed spaced relation, six actuator assemblies each having a variable length, wherein each of said base joints has a first end of two of said six actuator assemblies connected therewith, respectively, a center pole having a first spherical joint connected to a first end thereof and a second spherical joint connected to a second end thereof, wherein a second end of a first one of each of said two actuator assemblies connected to each of said base joints is connected to said first spherical joint of said center pole and a second end of a second one of each of said two actuator assemblies connected to each of said base joints is connected to said base joints is connected to said second spherical joint of said center pole in a manner which forms a hexadron, wherein at least one of said base joints or said spherical joint is a universal joint, said device further including a probe mounted at one end of said center pole and means for determining a change in length of each of said six actuator assemblies upon movement of said probe; a universal joint comprising means for enabling at least one output to be connected with said universal joint, means for enabling said at least one output to move in a generally spherical motion when connected to slid joint, and a reference sphere mounted at a center point of said joint for use in detecting any deviation from true spherical motion during movement of said joint. 2. A universal joint as defined in claim 1, wherein said at least one output includes a proximity sensor means operable to detect any non-spherical motion in said joint. 