The invention relates to machines for cleaning the inner surfaces of all kinds of tanks. The cleaning is processed by means of a nozzle (14) spraying a jet of cleaning fluid against the surface to be cleaned. Each nozzle (14) is rotatable around two axes, that enclose an angle. In order to be able to customize the working procedures of the machine to the geometry and size of the tank and to the kind of pollution, the machine comprises an electronic control and two independently operating drives (4) by means of which the rotational movement of the nozzle (14) around the two axes can be controlled.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for cleaning the interior surfaces of an enclosure, comprising at least one nozzle, a supply channel for providing flow communication between a source of cleaning fluid and said at least one nozzle, first drive means coupled to said at least one nozzle for rotating said at least one nozzle about a first axis, second drive means coupled to said at least one nozzle for rotating said at least one nozzle about a second axis different than said first axis, said first drive means being separate from said second drive means such that rotation of said at least one nozzle about each of the first and second axes is decoupled from rotation of said at least one nozzle about the other of the first and second axes, and control means coupled to said first and second drive means for independently controlling said first and second drive means such that said at least one nozzle is rotatable about each of the first and second axes independent of rotation of said at least one nozzle about the other of the first and second axes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control means comprise a computer and electronic components interposed between said computer and said first and second drive means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second drive means are structured and arranged such that said at least one nozzle is rotatable about the first axis via said first drive means while said second drive means do not rotate said at least one nozzle about the second axis and rotatable about the second axis via said second drive means while said first drive means do not rotate said at least one nozzle about the first axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control means are structured and arranged to control rotation of said at least one nozzle such that a trajectory described by an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle defines substantially parallel tracks. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control means are structured and arranged to control rotation of said at least one nozzle such that a trajectory described by an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle defines a plurality of tracks spaced apart by a common distance. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first drive means comprise a first elongate element rotatable about the first axis, a head coupled to and rotating with said first elongate element about the first axis, and a first gear mounted for rotation along with said head about the first axis; and said second drive means comprise a second elongate element rotatable about the second axis, a second gear coupled to and rotating with said second elongate element about the second axis and in toothed engagement with said first gear. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said first and second elongate elements are concentric. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said first elongate element is a bar and said second elongate element is a tube arranged around said bar. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said first elongate element is a tube and said second elongate element is a bar arranged in an interior of said tube. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said first and second elongate elements are rotatable at different rates of rotation to thereby vary the rotational position of said at least one nozzle. 11. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said first drive means further comprise a first motor and a transmission member for transferring motive power from said first motor to said first elongate element to cause rotation of said first elongate element, and said second drive means further comprise a second motor and a second transmission member for transferring motive power from said second motor to said second elongate element to cause rotation of said second elongate element. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said control means are arranged to control said first and second motors. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one nozzle comprises a plurality of nozzles, said first drive means comprise a first elongate element rotatable about the first axis, a head coupled to and rotating with said first elongate element about the first axis, and a plurality of first gears each mounted for rotation along with said head about the first axis and connected to a respective one of said nozzles; and said second drive means comprise a second elongate element rotatable about the second axis, a second gear coupled to and rotating with said second elongate element about the second axis and in toothed engagement with each of said plurality of first gears. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first drive means comprise a first elongate element rotatable about the first axis and including a cog-rail and said second drive means comprise a second elongate element movable in a longitudinal direction relative to said first elongate element and a gear rotatable about the second axis and in toothed engagement with said cog-rail such that said second elongate element is arranged to translate in a direction of the first axis to thereby determine, by means of a transmission ratio of said cog-rail and said gear, the rotational position of said at least one nozzle about the second axis. 15. Method for cleaning the interior surfaces of an enclosure, comprising supplying cleaning fluid to at least one nozzle, rotating said at least one nozzle about a first axis via first drive means, rotating said at least one nozzle about a second axis different than said first axis via second drive means, said first drive means being separate from said second drive means such that rotation of said at least one nozzle about each of the first and second axes is decoupled from rotation of said at least one nozzle about the other of the first and second axes, and independently controlling rotation of said at least one nozzle about the first axis via said first drive means and about the second axis via said second drive means such that said at least one nozzle is rotatable about each of the first and second axes independent of rotation of said at least one nozzle about the other of the first and second axes. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of: measuring pressure, temperature or flow rate of the cleaning fluid. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of controlling rotation of said at least one nozzle comprises the step of controlling said first and second drive means such that a trajectory described by an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle defines substantially parallel tracks. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of controlling rotation of said at least one nozzle comprises the step of controlling said first and second drive means such that a trajectory described by an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle defines a plurality of tracks spaced apart by a common distance. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of controlling rotation of said at least one nozzle comprises the step of controlling said first and second drive means such that an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle moves in a direction substantially perpendicular to a heart line of the jet. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of controlling rotation of said at least one nozzle comprises the step of controlling said first and second drive means such that tracks are defined by an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle and each track is closer to said at least one nozzle than preceding tracks. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of controlling rotation of said at least one nozzle comprises the step of controlling said first and second drive means such that tracks are defined by an impingement point of a jet emerging from said at least one nozzle and each track is farther from said at least one nozzle than preceding tracks. 