A flexible tooling fixture that has a pallet bed lying within an x-y plane and reference elements for alignment of the bed to the manufacturing tool; and at least two sets of supports extending from the top of the pallet bed, each set consisting of: (i) a flexible pivot to accurately locate differing brackets of the sensor assemblies to maintain the axis of the barrel in a common z-x plane, the z-x plane being off-set from the center of the bed, and (ii) one or more fixed stops for engaging the barrel and bracket of each assembly to determine a common-x-y position for each sensor module with the axis of the barrel in a predetermined relation to the bed, one set of supports being located to determine alignment of the axes of one class of sensor assemblies within the predetermined position, and the other set being located to determine alignment of the axes of another class of sensor assemblies within the same predetermined z-x plane when the bed is in a second position that is 180.degree. rotated from the first position.
Claims We claim: 1. A flexible tooling fixture for accurately locating different sized and different shaped mass air flow sensor assemblies so as to receive treatment from a common robotically positioned manufacturing tool, each assembly having a barrel with a longitudinal axis, one or more mounting brackets extending transversely to the barrel axis and a sensor module on the barrel, the fixture comprising: (a) a pallet bed lying within an x-y plane and having reference elements for alignment of the bed to said manufacturing tool; and (b) at least two sets of supports extending from the top of said pallet bed, each set consisting of (i) a flexible pivot means to accurately locate differing brackets of said sensor assemblies to maintain the axis of each barrel in a common z-x plane, said z-x plane being off-set from the center of said bed, (ii) one or more fixed stops for engaging the barrel and bracket of each assembly to determine a common x-y position for each sensor module with the axis of the barrel in a predetermined relation to said bed, one set of supports being located to determine alignment of the axes of one class of sensor assemblies within the predetermined z-x plane when said bed is in a first predetermined position, and the other set being located to determine alignment of the axes of another class of sensor assemblies within the same predetermined z-x plane when said bed is in a second position rotated 180.degree. from the first position. 2. The tooling fixture as in claim 1, in which, in sub-element (b) (ii), said fixed stops determine an x-y position for each sensor module when the axis of the barrel is parallel to said bed. 3. The tooling fixture as in claim 1, in which said reference elements comprise a pair of closely spaced self-centering cylindrical reference surfaces. 4. The tooling fixture as in claim 1, in which said pivot means comprises a dowel carried on an accurately adjustable arm for one set of said supports, said dowel journaling one portion of a bracket for an assembly so that it can be rotated to carry the barrel axis into said z-x plane. 5. The tooling fixture as in claim 1, in which said pivot means comprises a pair of stop surfaces cooperating with predetermined spaced pins fixedly adjacent said stop surfaces, said pins being effective to tangentially engage the sides of a pair of spaced openings in said mounting bracket for capturing the assembly while controlling pivotal movement of the assembly axis about said pair of stop surfaces to carry the barrel axis into said z-x plane. 6. The tooling fixture as in claim 5 in which said spaced pins tangentially engage either the most adjacent or the most remote sides of said pair of bracket openings for capturing the assembly. 7. The tooling fixture as in claim 1 in which said two sets of stops overlap a central axis of said pallet bed. 8. The tooling fixture as in claim 1 in which each of said two sets of supports possess both stop surfaces parallel to the x-y plane, and also upright shoulder surfaces facilitating capture of the assembly. 9. The tooling fixture as in claim 8 in which at least some of said upright shoulder surfaces act opposite to other upright shoulder surfaces to assure capture. 10. The tooling fixture as in claim 1 in which said reference elements align said bed to a laser trimming tool for electronically tuning said sensor module of each assembly. 