A method and apparatus for controlling a multiple chamber semiconductor wafer processing system. The processing system includes a plurality of process chambers about the periphery of the transfer chamber. A centrally located wafer transfer mechanism effects moving wafers between the process chambers. The process sequencer control is a real time, multi-tasking control program having a presequencer or look ahead feature for preventing delays in the processing. In one implementation, the look ahead feature identifies mid-sequence or oriented wafers which cannot be further processed because their destination chamber is busy. Rather than expend system resources waiting for the destination chamber to become available, the wafers are transferred to a holding position, preferably the load lock, and rescheduled at the earliest time to finish their processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: a plurality of process chambers; a transfer chamber, centrally located among said plurality of process chambers, containing a transfer mechanism that transports wafers between the process chambers; a sequence task controller for controlling the wafer transfer mechanism, wherein the sequence task controller includes a presequencer that continuously looks ahead at a data structure stored in a computer memory to schedule and prioritize wafer movement among the process chambers. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of process chambers include a source process chamber, a destination process chamber and a holding chamber and wherein said sequence task controller further comprises: means for identifying a deadlocked wafer in the source process chamber; and means for commanding the wafer transfer mechanism to transfer said identified deadlocked wafer to the holding chamber thereby releasing the source process chamber. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said means for identifying a deadlocked wafer further comprises: means for determining a destination process chamber of a wafer and whether that resource will be available when a transfer from the source process chamber to the intended destination process chamber is scheduled; and means for identifying the wafer as a deadlocked wafer whenever the destination process chamber will be unavailable. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said means for identifying a deadlocked wafer further comprises: means for reordering the wafer processing sequence to schedule a transfer of said deadlocked wafer from the holding chamber to its intended destination process chamber when that resource becomes available. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of process chambers includes a load lock chamber and wherein said holding chamber is the load lock chamber. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said deadlocked wafer is a mid-sequence wafer. 7. The system of claim 1 further including a orientor chamber wherein: said deadlocked wafer is an oriented wafer. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the data structure comprises a wafer move queue, a chamber data structure, a wafer management data structure, and a wafer order list. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said wafer order list contains information that uniquely identifies each wafer in said plurality of wafers using wafer identification data. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein said wafer move queue contains information that identifies a source process chamber and a destination process chamber for each of said wafers in said plurality of wafers. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein said chamber data structure contains information regarding chamber processing parameters. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein said wafer management data structure contains information that identifies the source process chamber of each wafer, the status of each wafer, a source cassette identification, and a source slot identification. 13. A method for processing wafers in a multiple chamber wafer processing system comprising the steps of: identifying a deadlocked wafer using a presequencer, wherein the presequencer continuously looks ahead at a data structure stored in a computer memory to schedule and prioritize wafer movement between a plurality of process chambers; moving said deadlocked wafer to a holding chamber until a destination chamber for the deadlocked wafer is available; and moving said deadlocked wafer to said destination chamber. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said deadlocked wafer is within an orientor chamber. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said identifying step further comprises the step of: reviewing a wafer move queue to identify a destination chamber for a particular wafer; reviewing a chamber data structure to determine if said destination chamber is available; and if the destination chamber is not available, identify the particular wafer as deadlocked. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: determining when said destination chamber will be available; and updating the wafer move queue with the particular wafer identification data to facilitate rescheduling of the particular wafer for moving to the destination chamber. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of: prioritizing any wafers in said wafer move queue after said wafer move queue is updated. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein said deadlocked wafer has a source chamber as the orientor chamber and said method further comprises the steps of maintaining an open orientor chamber door while a plurality of wafers are sequentially transferred from a load lock to the orientor chamber, oriented, and returned to the load lock until a destination chamber is available. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of moving an oriented wafer directly from said load lock to said destination chamber. 20. A method for the multiple chamber processing of wafers, where each wafer is sequentially processed in multiple process chambers adapted for one or more integrated circuit processes according to a process recipe and multiple wafers are scheduled, comprising the steps of: assembling a wafer order list identifying the timing and order in which the plurality of wafers are to be processed through the multiple process chambers and the different processes; processing said wafers according to said wafer order list; determining for each wafer identified on the wafer order list, from its present status in a source process chamber and its process recipe, the next destination process chamber in its process sequence and the status of the destination process chamber at the time of completion of the present process step; transferring the wafer to the destination process chamber if its status is available; transferring the wafer to a holding chamber if the destination process chamber status is unavailable; and modifying the wafer order list to reschedule the wafer processing sequence for those wafers transferred to the holding chamber, by continuously looking ahead at a data structure stored in a computer memory. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising the steps of: detecting whether any of the wafers in the wafer order list can be transferred and, if none of the wafers can be transferred; opening both a load lock and a orientor chamber to a transfer chamber; performing wafer orientation by transferring a wafer from said load lock to said orientor chamber, orienting said wafer in said orientor chamber, and transferring said oriented wafer to said load lock; repeating said wafer orientation upon other wafers in said load lock until a destination chamber is deemed available; closing said load lock and orientor chamber; and transferring a wafer to the destination chamber. 