A gasket defining an axially extending bore therethrough, a front mold having a an edge circumscribing the front mold, wherein the edge is of a size to be complementarily received within at least a portion of the bore of the gasket so that the edge and the bore form a seal therebetween, and a rear mold having a rim circumscribing the rear mold, wherein the rim is sized to be complementarily received within at least a portion of the bore so that the rim and the bore form a seal therebetween. When the front mold and the rear mold are both disposed within the bore of the gasket, a volume is formed between the back surface of the front mold and the front surface of the rear mold and the interior surface of the gasket. A selected one of the front mold or the rear mold is axially and slidably movable within the bore relative to the other mold disposed within the bore to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds, whereby the volume is different for each separation distance. The different volumes correspond to different lens powers, so that the gasket of the present invention can form different lenses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A structure for forming a lens from a lens-forming fluid, comprising: a. a gasket having a first end, an opposed second end, a body portion joining the first end to the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion, the bore forming an interior surface, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore; b. a front mold having a forward surface, an opposed back surface, and an edge circumscribing the front mold, wherein the edge is of a size to be complementarily received within at least a portion of the bore of the gasket so that the edge and the interior surface of the gasket form a seal therebetween; and c. a rear mold having a forward surface, an opposed back surface, and a rim circumscribing the rear mold, wherein the rim is sized to be complementarily received within at least a portion of the bore of the gasket so that the rim and the interior surface of the gasket form a seal therebetween, wherein, when the front mold and the rear mold are both disposed within the bore of the gasket, a volume is formed between the back surface of the front mold and the forward surface of the rear mold and the interior surface of the gasket for receiving the lens-forming fluid, and wherein at least one of the front mold and the rear mold is axially movable within the bore relative to the other mold disposed within the bore to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds to provide a different volume for receiving the lens-forming fluid for each separation distance and to compensate for the shrinkage of the lens-forming fluid when it is cured by an ultraviolet light to form the lens. 2. The structure of claim 1, further comprising means for injecting the lens-forming fluid into the volume formed between the two molds and the interior surface of the gasket. 3. The structure of claim 2, wherein the injecting means comprises: a. an injection needle having an insertion end that penetrates from the outer surface of the gasket into the volume, a receiving end adapted to be in fluid communication with a supply of the lens-forming fluid, and a passage therethrough that allows the lens-forming fluid to traverse from the receiving end through the passage and out of the insertion end and into the volume; and b. means for conveying the injection needle between an insert position, in which the insertion end of the injection needle is in fluid communication with the bore of the gasket, and a withdrawn position, in which the insertion end is spaced apart from the gasket and the bore thereof. 4. The structure of claim 1, further comprising means for rotatably orienting about the bore a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold and the gasket. 5. The structure of claim 1, further comprising means for sealing the gasket after a needle has penetrated into the gasket and been removed therefrom. 6. The structure of claim 5, wherein the sealing means comprises the gasket being formed of a polymeric elastomer compatible with the lens-forming fluid. 7. The structure of claim 6, wherein the polymeric elastomer is selected from the group consisting of elastomeric PVC, silicon, Krayton, ethylene vinyl acetate, or a mixture thereof. 8. The structure of claim 1, further comprising means for providing fluid communication between the outer surface of the gasket and the bore intermediate the front and rear molds to facilitate axial movement of the molds relative to each other. 9. The structure of claim 8, wherein the providing means comprises a vent needle having a tip end adapted to penetrate through the body portion of the gasket to communicate with the bore thereof and an opposite base end with the tip end being in fluid communication with the base end to allow fluid flow therebetween. 10. The structure of claim 1, wherein the gasket is formed of a polymeric elastomer compatible with the lens-forming fluid. 11. The structure of claim 10, wherein the polymeric elastomer is selected from the group consisting of elastomeric PVC, silicon, Krayton, ethylene vinyl acetate, or a mixture thereof. 12. The structure of claim 1, wherein the port is in fluid communication with the volume formed between the back surface of the front mold and the forward surface of the rear mold and the interior surface of the gasket. 13. The structure of claim 1, wherein the port is adapted to receive a portion of a needle therein so that the needle is in fluid communication with the bore of the gasket without a portion of the needle being inserted into the bore. 14. A gasket utilizing a front mold and a rear mold for forming a lens from a lens-forming fluid, comprising of a first end, an opposed second end, a body portion joining the first end to the second end, a bore extending axially through the body portion, the body portion having an outer surface and the bore forming an interior surface, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore, the bore being of a sufficient cross section to receive therein the front and rear molds so that at least one of the front mold and the rear mold is axially movable relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds to provide a different volume for receiving the lens-forming fluid for each separation distance and to compensate for the shrinkage of the lens-forming fluid when it is cured by an ultraviolet light to form the lens, the volume being in fluid communication with the port. 15. The gasket of claim 14, wherein the gasket is formed of a polymeric elastomer compatible with the lens-forming fluid. 16. The gasket of claim 15, wherein the polymeric elastomer is selected from the group consisting of elastomeric PVC, silicon, Krayton, ethylene vinyl acetate, or a mixture thereof. 