The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for processing of semiconductor wafers. Specifically, embodiments of the present invention include apparatus designed to resist etching and deposition by processing and cleaning gases in a processing chamber. The apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and facilitate cleaning of the processing chamber. In one embodiment of the invention, a heating assembly for heating a semiconductor wafer within a deposition apparatus comprises a pedestal having a substantially planar upper surface for supporting the semiconductor wafer thereon and a heating element disposed therein for heating the wafer to the required temperatures for processing. According to the invention, the pedestal includes a protective layer substantially covering and adhered to the wafer support surface. The material used in the layer is substantially resistant to reactions with and deposition by process gases and cleaning gases at temperatures up to 500.degree. C. The thickness of the protective layer usually ranges from about 2 to 30 mils and preferably between about 5 to 10 mils.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer support pedestal for heating and including a wafer support surface for supporting a semiconductor wafer in a deposition apparatus, the pedestal formed by a process comprising: coating at least the wafer support surface of the pedestal with a transition material; introducing ceramic powder into a combustible gas mixture; combusting the gas mixture and powder together; and propelling the combusted powder onto the pedestal to form a thermally and chemically protective layer over at least the wafer support surface on the pedestal, wherein the transition material disposed between the pedestal and the protective layer has a coefficient of thermal expansion between the coefficient of thermal expansion of the protective layer and the coefficient of thermal expansion of the pedestal. 2. The pedestal of claim 1 wherein propelling the combusted powder comprises producing a detonation wave and accelerating the combusted powder to a speed of at least about 700 m/s, and wherein accelerating the combusted powder comprises heating the powder to a temperature near the melting point of the powder. 3. The pedestal of claim 1 wherein introducing the ceramic powder comprises providing a powder having at least about 99.5% by weight aluminum oxide. 4. The pedestal of claim 1 wherein the protective layer has a porosity less than about 1% of the volume of the protective layer. 5. The pedestal of claim 1 wherein the transition material comprises nickel. 6. The pedestal of claim 1 wherein the process further comprises polishing the transition material before forming the protective layer on the pedestal. 7. The pedestal of claim 1 further comprising grit blasting the transition material prior to forming the protective layer. 8. The pedestal of claim 1 wherein the process further comprises grinding the protective layer over the wafer support surface down to a desired thickness. 9. The pedestal of claim 1 further comprising an imbedded heating coil. 10. A substrate support pedestal including a substrate support surface, the pedestal having a protective layer formed by a process comprising: introducing ceramic powder including at least about 99.5% by weight aluminum oxide into a combustible gas mixture; combusting the ceramic powder with the gas mixture; and propelling the combusted ceramic powder onto the pedestal to form the protective layer over at least the substrate support surface on the pedestal, wherein the pedestal includes a transition material disposed between the substrate support surface and the protective layer, the transition material having a coefficient of thermal expansion between the coefficient of thermal expansion of the protective layer and the coefficient of thermal expansion of the pedestal. 11. The substrate support pedestal claim of 10 wherein the transition material comprises nickel. 12. The substrate support pedestal of claim 11 wherein the pedestal comprises aluminum. 