The invention generally relates to various aspects of a plasma process, and more specifically the monitoring of such plasma processes. One aspect relates in at least some manner to calibrating or initializing a plasma monitoring assembly. This type of calibration may be used to address wavelength shifts, intensity shifts, or both associated with optical emissions data obtained on a plasma process. A calibration light may be directed at a window through which optical emissions data is being obtained to determine the effect, if any, that the inner surface of the window is having on the optical emissions data being obtained therethrough, the operation of the optical emissions data gathering device, or both. Another aspect relates in at least some manner to various types of evaluations which may be undertaken of a plasma process which was run, and more typically one which is currently being run, within the processing chamber. Plasma health evaluations and process identification through optical emissions analysis are included in this aspect. Yet another aspect associated with the present invention relates in at least some manner to the endpoint of a plasma process (e.g., plasma recipe, plasma clean, conditioning wafer operation) or discrete/discernible portion thereof (e.g., a plasma step of a multiple step plasma recipe). A final aspect associated with the present invention relates to how one or more of the above-noted aspects may be implemented into a semiconductor fabrication facility, such as the distribution of wafers to a wafer production system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for running a plasma recipe on a product, said system comprising: a processing chamber comprising a product access, wherein at least one product may be introduced into said processing chamber through said product access; means for removing materials from an interior of said processing chamber while no product is loaded in said processing chamber, said means for removing comprising a plasma present within said processing chamber while said processing chamber is devoid of any said product, said means for removing comprising means for plasma cleaning said interior of said processing chamber; means for obtaining optical emissions of said plasma used by said means for removing at least a plurality of times during operation of said means for removing, wherein said means for obtaining comprises means for obtaining a current optical emissions segment of said plasma in said processing chamber, said current optical emissions segment comprising optical emissions which includes at least wavelengths from least about 250 nanometers to about 1,000 nanometers, inclusive, which defines a first wavelength range, and at a first wavelength resolution throughout said first wavelength range, wherein said first wavelength resolution is defined as a wavelength spacing between each adjacent pair of wavelengths throughout said first wavelength range, and wherein said first wavelength resolution is no more than about 1 nanometer; means for comparing a current pattern of at least a portion of said optical emissions defined by at least one of a plurality of executions of said means for obtaining with a first standard pattern stored on a computer-readable storage medium; and means for deactivating said means for removing, said means for deactivating being responsive to at least a first condition, said first condition being when said current pattern is within a predetermined tolerance of said first standard pattern and which is equated with an endpoint of a plasma cleaning operation provided by said means for plasma cleaning. 2. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: at least a portion of said materials are deposits from plasma recipes run on product loaded in said processing chamber. 3. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: at least a portion of said materials are residuals from a wet clean conducted within said processing chamber before activation of said means for removing. 4. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said means for comparing comprises means for comparing said first standard pattern with a first said current pattern of a first wavelength within said first wavelength range which is developed over time, said first standard pattern being of optical emissions of plasma in the same said processing chamber at said first wavelength over a first time period from a previous-in-time execution of said means for removing. 5. A system, as claimed in claim 4, wherein: both said first said current pattern and said first standard pattern are plots of an intensity variation over time. 6. A system, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said first standard pattern is within a first standard optical emissions segment, said first standard optical emissions segment comprising optical emissions of said plasma in said processing chamber over at least said first wavelength range at said first wavelength resolution and having been obtained from a previous-in-time execution of said means for removing, said system further comprising: means for identifying a first peak associated with said first wavelength in said first standard optical emissions segment; means for identifying a second peak in said first standard optical emissions segment, said second peak being at a different wavelength than said first peak; means for determining a relative relationship between said first and second peaks; and means for locating said first peak to locate said first wavelength in said current optical emissions segment using said means for determining a relative relationship, said means for locating providing output to said means for comparing to allow said means for comparing to accurately proceed even in the event of a wavelength shift condition associated with said means for obtaining. 7. A system, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said first standard pattern is within a first standard optical emissions segment, said first standard optical emissions segment comprising optical emissions of said plasma in said processing chamber over at least said first wavelength range at said first wavelength resolution and having been obtained from a previous-in-time execution of said means for removing, said system further comprising: means for identifying a first peak associated with said first wavelength in said first standard optical emissions segment; means for noting a wavelength associated with said first peak; means for verifying said first peak is a largest peak within a first wavelength region; and means for finding said first peak in said current optical emissions segment by using said means for verifying, said means for finding step being executed before said means for comparing to allow said means for comparing to accurately proceed even in the event of a wavelength shift condition associated with said means for obtaining. 8. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said means for comparing comprises means for comparing said first standard pattern with a first said current pattern of a first wavelength within said first wavelength range which is developed over time, said first standard pattern being optical emissions of plasma in said processing chamber at said first wavelength over a first time period from a previous-in-time execution of said means for removing, and wherein said system further comprises means for comparing a second standard pattern with a second said current pattern of a second wavelength within said first wavelength range which is developed over time, said second standard pattern being optical emissions of plasma in said processing chamber at said second wavelength over a second time period from a previous-in time execution of said means for removing, said first condition being when both said first said current pattern is within a predetermined tolerance of said first standard pattern and said second said current pattern is within a predetermined tolerance of said second standard pattern. 9. A system, as claimed in claim 8, wherein: both said first and second said current patterns and both said first and second standard patterns are plots of an intensity variation over time. 10. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said first standard pattern was obtained from a previous-in-time execution of said means for removing in the same said processing chamber. 11. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said predetermined tolerance allows said current pattern associated with said first condition to experience a first change in relation to said first standard pattern, said first change being selected from the group consisting of an intensity shift, a temporal shift, an enlargement, a reduction, and any combination of the foregoing. 12. A system, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for locating a wavelength within said optical emissions which corresponds with a wavelength of said first standard pattern, said means for locating providing output to said means for comparing. 13. A system, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for accounting for any wavelength shift occurring during operation of said means for obtaining, said means for accounting providing output to said means for comparing. 14. A system, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for monitoring an amount of operation time of said means for removing, wherein said means for deactivating is also responsive to a second condition, said second condition being when said amount of operation time is at least equal to a predetermined maximum time limit, wherein said means for deactivating will terminate said means for plasma cleaning in response to an existence of said second condition even though said first condition does not yet exist. 15. A system, as claimed in claim 14, further comprising: means for initiating a wet clean of said interior of said processing chamber after activation of said means for deactivating when said means for deactivating is activated by said second condition. 16. A system, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for evaluating a condition of said plasma in said processing chamber during operation of said means for removing, wherein said condition is a cumulative result of all parameters having an effect on said plasma in said processing chamber. 17. A system, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: both said current pattern and said first standard pattern are of optical emissions of at least said first wavelength range and at said first wavelength resolution. 18. A system, as claimed in claim 17, wherein: said means for comparing comprises means for subtracting one of said first standard pattern and said current pattern at each of said plurality of executions of said means for obtaining from a previous-in-time execution of said first standard pattern and said current pattern at each of said plurality of executions of said means for obtaining to define a differential, said predetermined tolerance being when said differential is at least a substantially flat line with no substantial peaks. 19. A system for running a plasma recipe on a product, said system comprising: a processing chamber comprising a product access, wherein the product may be transferred between an interior and exterior of said processing chamber through said product access; means for removing materials from an interior of said processing chamber while no product is loaded in said processing chamber, said means for removing comprising a plasma within said processing chamber while said processing chamber is devoid of any said product, said means for removing comprising means for plasma cleaning said interior of said processing chamber; means for obtaining optical emissions of said plasma within said processing chamber at least a plurality of times during operation of said means for removing; means for determining, for each of a plurality of executions of said means for obtaining, a differential between a pattern of at least a portion of said optical emissions at a current time and a pattern of said at least a portion of said optical emissions from a preceding time; and means for deactivating said means for removing, wherein said means for deactivating is activated by a first condition, wherein said first condition is when said differential from said means for determining is at least a substantially flat line with no substantial peaks. 20. A system, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: at least a portion of said materials are deposits from previous executions of plasma recipes on product within said processing chamber. 21. A system, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: at least a portion of said materials are residuals from a wet clean conducted within said processing chamber before activation of said means for removing. 22. A system, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: said means for obtaining comprises means for obtaining optical emissions which includes at least wavelengths from about 250 nanometers to about 1,000 nanometers, inclusive, which defines a first wavelength range, and at a first wavelength resolution, wherein said first wavelength resolution is defined as a wavelength spacing between each adjacent pair of wavelengths throughout said first wavelength range, and wherein said first wavelength resolution is no more than about 1 nanometer. 23. A system, as claimed in claim 19, further comprising: means for monitoring an amount of operations time of said means for removing, wherein said means for deactivating is also responsive to a second condition, said second condition being when said amount of operations time is at least equal to a predetermined maximum time limit, wherein said means for deactivating will terminate said means for plasma cleaning in response to an existence of said second condition even though said first condition does not yet exist. 24. A system, as claimed in claim 19, further comprising: means for evaluating a condition of said plasma in said processing chamber during operation of said means for removing, wherein said condition is a cumulative result of all parameters having an effect on said plasma in said processing chamber. 