A semiconductor wafer testing and inspecting apparatus and method are provided in which a plurality of tests are performed on each of a plurality of wafers from a wafer cassette and before the wafers are returned to a packaging cassette or further processing. A carousel conveyor receives each wafer from a cassette and indexes it through each of a plurality of testing stations, including preferably at least two electrical testing stations at which a probe contacts each device or die on the wafer to perform an electrical test, with the two stations performing different electrical tests. The wafers are each moved through at least one visual or optical testing station at which each of the dies on the wafer is inspected. Preferably, a testing head or probe is moved in a plane parallel to the wafer sequentially to positions over each of the devices on the wafer to perform a test on or otherwise inspect the devices on the wafer. When in each of the positions, the wafer is lifted by a "pop-up" chuck or elevator that brings a device on the wafer into contact with the probe needles. A robot arm may be provided in addition or in the alternative to the carousel to move the wafers, for example, into and out of cassettes, to and from a standby station, or to and from a testing station or holder on the carousel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for testing and inspecting semiconductor wafers having a plurality of devices at least partially formed thereon comprising: at least one cassette station for the unloading of wafers from a cassette and the loading of wafers onto a cassette; a plurality of wafer inspection or test stations disposed around a vertical axis; each inspection station having thereat an inspection head moveable in a horizontal plane to a position adjacent a selected device on a horizontally disposed wafer located at the inspection station; a transfer mechanism operable to transport wafers between the at least one cassette station and the inspection stations, the transfer mechanism including a carousel that includes a horizontal table that is rotatable about said vertical axis and has a plurality of wafer holders at fixed locations thereon spaced radially from and angularly around the axis such that, when the table is angularly indexed around the axis, different ones of the wafer holders simultaneously move individual wafers sequentially to positions at different ones of the stations, the transfer mechanism further including a robot arm operable to move a wafer non-sequentially between any of a plurality of the holders on the table and any of a plurality of other holders on the table or a cassette; and at least one wafer elevator operable to raise a wafer, transported to a test or inspection station by the transfer mechanism, from a wafer holder vertically upward into a test or inspection position adjacent a test or inspection head at one of the test or inspection stations and for lowering the wafer vertically from the test or inspection position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: each inspection station has the inspection head thereof operable to perform an electrical test on the selected device on the wafer upon moving into electrical contact with the selected device on the wafer; and the at least one wafer elevator is operable to raise the wafer transported to the inspection station vertically upward to make electrical contact between the selected device on the wafer with the inspection head when the head is horizontally moved into adjacent the selected device. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein: the plurality of test or inspection stations includes at least one inspection station having a visual inspection head located thereat operable to perform a visual inspection of devices on a wafer thereat. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the plurality of stations includes at least one inspection station having a visual inspection head located thereat operable to perform a visual inspection of devices on a wafer. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the robot arm is supported on the vertical axis at the center of the carousel. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the robot arm is operable to pick-up, move and place a wafer respectively from, between and onto any arbitrary one of the wafer holders. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: at least one cassette station is an unloading and reloading station at which wafers are unloaded from a cassette to the transfer mechanism and reloaded from the transfer mechanism to the cassette. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: at least one cassette station includes at least two cassette stations, including an unloading station at which wafers are unloaded from a cassette to the transfer mechanism and a loading station at which wafers are loaded from the transfer mechanism to a cassette. 9. An apparatus form inspecting semiconductor wafers having a plurality of devices at least partially formed thereon comprising: at least one cassette station for the unloading of wafers from a cassette and the loading of wafers onto a cassette; a plurality of wafer inspection stations disposed around a vertical axis; a conveyor system having a plurality of fixed wafer holding positions thereon and being operable to hold a plurality of wafers and to move each wafer of the plurality sequentially to the stations, the conveyor system including a carousel rotatable about the vertical axis with each of the wafer holding positions being located thereon and spaced radially from and angularly around the axis such that, when the carousel is angularly indexed around the axis, the wafer holding positions are each simultaneously moved between different pairs of adjacent stations; the plurality of inspection stations including at least one optical inspection station having an optical inspection head supported thereat for sensing visual information from a wafer located at the station; the plurality of stations including a plurality of electrical inspection stations each having an electrical inspection head that includes an electrical test probes for coupling to a wafer thereat and sensing electrical information from said wafer; recording media capable of recording information sensed from the wafers at the stations and to relate the sensed information to the wafer from which the information is sensed and to a particular portion of the wafer from which the information is sensed; and a controller operable to control (a) motion of the conveyor, (b) the operation of inspection stations and (c) the recording media so as (i) to move each of the wafers of the plurality from a cassette at the at least one cassette station, to and from the at least one optical inspection station and to and from at least one of the first, and at least one of the second, electrical inspection stations, (ii) to sense visual information and electrical information from the first and the second tests from each of a plurality of different portions of each of the wafers and to a cassette at the at least one cassette station, and to record, at least selectively, information sensed from the wafers. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the plurality of electrical inspection stations includes a first electrical inspection station operable to perform a first test on a wafer located thereat and a second electrical inspection station operable to perform on a wafer located thereat a second test that differs from the first test. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the plurality of inspection stations includes one electrical inspection station operable to perform a test on some devices on a wafer located thereat and another electrical inspection station operable to perform the same test on other devices on a wafer located thereat. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the plurality of electrical inspection stations includes a plurality of first electrical inspection stations each operable to perform a first test on a wafer located thereat and a plurality of second electrical inspection stations each operable to perform on a wafer located thereat a second test that differs from the first test. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the plurality of electrical inspection stations includes a plurality of first electrical inspection stations each operable to perform a first test on a wafer located thereat and a plurality of second electrical inspection stations each operable to perform on a wafer located thereat a second test that differs from the first test; and the controller being further operable to control the movement of each of the wafers of the plurality to and from at least one of the first, and at least one of the second, electrical inspection stations and to sense electrical information from the first and the second tests from each of a plurality of different portions of each of the wafers. 14. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the probe at each of the electrical inspection stations is moveable in a plane parallel to a wafer thereat to a position adjacent a selected portion of a wafer to perform the respective test thereon; and each electrical inspection station includes a holder for supporting the wafer thereat in an orientation parallel to the plane, which holder is moveable perpendicular to the plane to move the wafer into and out of contact with the probe when the probe is in the position adjacent the selected portion of the wafer. 15. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the conveyor system is operable to index each of the plurality of wafers from the unloading station, then sequentially to and from each of the first electrical and second electrical inspection stations, then to and from the optical inspection station and then to the loading station. 16. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the robot arm is supported on the vertical axis of the carousel and is operable to transfer wafers to and from any of a plurality of the wafer holding positions on the carousel. 17. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the apparatus includes at least one standby station; and the robot arm is operable to transfer wafers to and from any of a plurality of the wafer holding positions on the carousel and to and from the standby station. 18. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the robot arm is operable to transfer wafers to and from wafer holding positions at or adjacent different ones of the stations. 19. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the at least one cassette station is an unloading and reloading station at which wafers are unloaded from a cassette to the carousel and reloaded from the carousel to the cassette. 20. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the at least one cassette station includes an unloading at which wafers are unloaded from a cassette to the transfer mechanism and a loading station at which wafers are loaded from the transfer mechanism to a cassette. 21. A method of inspecting semiconductor wafers comprising the steps of: unloading a plurality of semiconductor wafers sequentially from a cassette; loading the unloaded wafers sequentially to a cassette; after unloading any one of the wafers from the cassette and before loading said one of the wafers to a cassette, transporting said wafer sequentially through a first electrical inspection station, through a second electrical inspection station and through an optical inspection station by indexing each of the wafers on a carousel from a cassette station, sequentially through each of the inspection stations, and to a cassette station; at the first inspection station, electrically coupling to the wafer with an electrical probe, sensing electrical information from said wafer and performing therewith a first test, and storing, at least selectively, data based on the first test correlated to data identifying the wafer and to data identifying a portion of the wafer to which the stored sensed information relates; at the second inspection station, electrically coupling to the wafer with an electrical probe, sensing electrical information from said wafer and performing therewith a second test different from the first test, and storing, at least selectively data based on the second test correlated to data identifying the wafer and data identifying a portion of the wafer to which the stored sensed information relates; and at the optical inspection station, sensing visual information from the wafer and storing, at least selectively, data based on the sensed optical information correlated to data identifying the wafer and data identifying a portion of the wafer to which the stored sensed information relates. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein: the transporting step includes the step of indexing each of the wafers on a carousel from the unloading station, sequentially through each of the inspection stations, and to the loading station. 23. The method of claim 21 further comprising, at each electrical inspection station, the steps of: moving the probe in a plane parallel to a wafer thereat to a position adjacent a selected portion of a wafer and performing the respective test thereon; and supporting the wafer on a holder in an orientation parallel to the plane, and moving the holder perpendicular to the plane to move the wafer into and out of contact with the probe when the probe is in the position adjacent the selected portion of the wafer. 24. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of: generating a map from the stored information and containing information for locating devices on the wafer selected on the basis of the results of the tests. 