A method and apparatus for automatically transferring and handling cartridges containing flat articles. The method and apparatus robotically transfers filled cartridges from the output compartments of a sorting machine to a buffer shelf; and from the buffer shelf to a docking station of a cartridge unloader and automatic feeder to the input of the sorting machine, and for transferring empty cartridges from the docking station to either the buffer or the output compartments of the sorter, is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for inserting a cartridge in or extracting the cartridge from a compartment which holds and secures the cartridge within an article processing machine that loads one or more flat articles into a front end of the cartridge when the cartridge is secured within the compartment, comprising the steps of: aligning a support platform with the compartment of the article processing machine the support platform having a motor driven first end effector and second end effector; extending the first end effector into the compartment to activate a lever that causes a sweep gate within the compartment to close such that the flat articles are pushed into the cartridge by the sweep gate during extraction of the cartridge; extending the second end effector into the compartment to insert the cartridge in or extract the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine, the second end effector supporting the cartridge during extraction and insertion; pivoting a cartridge door connected the front end of the cartridge into a closed position during extraction of the cartridge or an open position during insertion of the cartridge into the compartment; and retracting the first and second end effectors. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of extending the second end effector during insertion of the cartridge includes moving the cartridge from the support platform into the compartment until the cartridge is secured within the compartment of the article processing machine. 3. The method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of extending the second end effector during extraction of the cartridge includes moving the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine onto the support platform. 4. The method in accordance with claim 1 further including the step of rotating the support platform for alignment thereof to insert the cartridge in or extract the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine. 5. The method in accordance with claim 1 further including the step of positioning the support platform in a home position in preparation for the step of aligning the support platform for insertion of the cartridge in or extract the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine. 6. A cartridge handling assembly for inserting or extracting a cartridge from a compartment which holds and secures the cartridge within an article processing machine that loads one or more flat articles into a front end of the cartridge when the cartridge is secured within the compartment comprising: a support platform; a motor: a first end effector movably attached to the support platform and driven by the motor, the first end effector having an extended position for activation of a lever within the compartment that causes a sweep gate within the compartment to close such that the flat articles are pushed into the cartridge by the sweep gate during extraction of the cartridge: and a second end effector movably attached to the support platform and driven by the motor, the second end effector supporting the cartridge during extraction and insertion and having an extended position for insertion of the cartridge into the compartment of the article processing machine and a retracted position for extraction of the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine. 7. The carriage assembly in accordance with claim 6 further comprising a drive for rotatably supporting said support platform about a horizontal axis. 8. An apparatus for inserting a cartridge to or extracting the cartridge from a compartment which holds and secures the cartridge within an article processing machine that loads one or more flat articles into a front end of the cartridge when the cartridge is secured within the compartment comprising: a carriage handling assembly comprising; a support platform; a motor; a first end effector movably attached to the support platform and driven by the motor, the first end effector having an extended position for activation of a lever within the compartment that causes a sweep gate within the compartment to close such that the flat articles are pushed into the cartridge by the sweep gate during extraction of the cartridge, and a second end effector movably attached to the support platform and driven by the motor, the second end effector supporting the cartridge during extraction and insertion and having an extended position for insertion of the cartridge into the compartment of the article processing machine and a retracted position for extraction of the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine; and a vertical column mounted for linear movement along the article processing machine, the carriage assembly movably connected to the vertical column for movement thereof horizontally and vertically. 9. The apparatus in accordance with claim 8 further comprising an upper rail and a lower rail, said upper rail supporting a top end of said vertical column and said lower rail supporting a lower end of said vertical column. 10. The apparatus in accordance with claim 9 further comprising X-Y drive servos for vertical movement of the carriage assembly along the vertical column and liner movement of the vertical column along the upper rail and the lower rail. 11. The apparatus in accordance with claim 8 further comprising a cantilever support beam for pivotally mounting the support platform of the carriage assembly to the vertical column. 12. A cartridge transfer unit for inserting or extracting a cartridge from a compartment which holds and secures the cartridge within an article processing machine that loads one or more flat articles into a front end of the cartridge when the cartridge is secured within the compartment comprising; a support platform; means movably attached to the support platform for activation of a lever within the compartment that causes a sweep gate within the compartment to close such that the flat articles are pushed into the cartridge by the sweep gate during extraction of the cartridge; and means movably attached to the support platform for supporting the cartridge during extraction and insertion, inserting the cartridge into the compartment of the article processing machine, and extracting the cartridge from the compartment of the article processing machine; and means for rotatably supporting and moving the support platform about a horizontal axis. 13. The cartridge transfer unit in accordance with claim 12 further comprising a vertical column mounted for linear movement along the article processing machine, the support platform mounted to the vertical column for movement thereof horizontally and vertically. 14. The cartridge transfer unit in accordance with claim 13 further comprising an upper rail and a lower rail, said upper rail supporting a top end of said vertical column and said lower rail supporting a lower end of said vertical column. 15. The cartridge transfer unit in accordance with claim 14 further comprising means for vertical movement of the support platform along the vertical column and liner movement of the vertical column along the upper rail and the lower rail. 16. The cartridge transfer unit in accordance with claim 13 further comprising a cantilever support beam for pivotally mounting the support platform of the carriage assembly to the vertical column. 