A hybrid personal vehicle capable of holonomic omni-directional self-locomotion. The vehicle may be programmed to navigate to a specified location in a crowded household environment. Additionally, sensors are provided for accurate docking and tight mating with fixtures such as a toilet or bed. A controller determines a docking trajectory to a specified fixture and behaves with arbitrary stiffness in each degree of freedom about a determined center of compliance.
Claims We claim: 1. A vehicle for docking against a fixture, the vehicle comprising: a. a ground contacting assembly capable of motion in a plane, the motion being holonomic with respect to three degrees of freedom; b. a motor drive for propelling the ground contacting assembly in a predetermined direction; c. an instrumented bumper for sensing contact between the vehicle and the fixture; and d. a controller for determining a docking trajectory to the fixture, the controller being programmed to react to feedback from the instrumented bumper to control the motor drive such that the vehicle behaves with a variable specified stiffness in each degree of freedom about a determined center of compliance in such a manner as to steer the vehicle to the fixture. 2. A vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising a support coupled to the ground contacting assembly for supporting a person. 3. A vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising an instrumented bumper for sensing contact between the vehicle and the fixture. 4. A vehicle according to claim 3, wherein the instrumented bumper has at least two separately activated components for separately measuring contact forces on opposite sides of the vehicle. 5. A vehicle according to claim 3, wherein the instrumented bumper includes pressure sensors for measuring contact forces between the vehicle and the fixture. 6. A vehicle according to claim 5, wherein the pressure sensors are discrete. 7. A vehicle according to claim 5, wherein the pressure sensors are continuous. 8. A vehicle according to claim 3, wherein the magnitudes and locations of forces between the vehicle and the fixture are independently determinable. 9. A vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the support may be configured as a cushioned seat and as a mobile bed for docking with a U-shaped bed fixture. 10. A vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the support includes a platform for accommodating the person in at least one of seated and reclining positions. 11. A vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the support provides for sanitary engagement of a toilet fixture. 12. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the ground contacting assembly comprises at least three ball wheels. 13. A vehicle according to claim 12, further comprising a plurality of encoders for measuring rotation of the wheels. 14. A vehicle for transporting a body to a target location, comprising: a. a ground contacting assembly capable of holonomic motion, the ground contacting assembly comprising: i. at least three ball wheels; ii. a motor drive coupled to each ball wheel; and b. a controller for determining a trajectory to the target location, subject to topological constraints, programmed to react to feedback from an instrumented bumper, for controlling the motor drive in such a manner that the vehicle behaves with a variable specified stiffness in each degree of freedom and that the vehicle is steered to the target location in accordance with the determined trajectory. 15. A vehicle according to claim 14, further comprising a support for supporting a person. 16. A vehicle according to claim 14, further comprising a plurality of encoders for measuring rotation of the wheels. 17. A vehicle according to claim 14 additionally comprising a processor for calculating wheel slippage based at least upon rotation of the wheels measured by the plurality of encoders. 18. A vehicle according to claim 14, additionally comprising load sensors for measuring a load supported by each wheel. 19. A vehicle according to claim 15, wherein the support includes a platform for accommodating the person in at least one of seated and reclining positions. 20. A vehicle according to claim 15, wherein the controller includes means for optimizing the trajectory for comfort to the person. 