This invention relates to methods and systems for characterizing the actions of drugs in cells. In particular, the invention provides methods for determining the presence of a number of primary targets through which a drug, drug candidate, or other compound of interest acts on a cell. Thus, the invention also relates to methods for drug development based on the disclosed methods for determining the presence of a number of primary targets of a drug. The methods of the invention involve: (i) measuring responses of cellular constituents to graded exposures of the cell to a drug of interest; (ii) identifying an "inflection concentration" of the drug for each cellular constituent measured; and (iii) identifying "expression sets" of cellular constituents from the distribution of the inflection drug concentrations. Each expression set corresponds to a particular primary target of the drug. The invention also provides computer systems which determine the presence of a number of targets of a drug by executing the disclosed methods.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the presence of a number of primary targets of a drug composition in a cell type, said method comprising determining the number of expression sets wherein: (a) the expression sets each comprise a plurality of cellular constituents having similar inflection concentrations of the drug composition; (b) the inflection concentration of the drug composition for a cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the cellular constituent is increased or decreased by the drug composition in a drug response; and (c) the drug response comprises measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of exposure of said cell type to the drug composition, wherein each expression set indicates the presence of a different primary target of the drug composition in the cell type. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the absolute slope of a plot of the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is maximum. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inflection concentration of the drug composition for the cellular constituent is the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the measured amount of the cellular constituent in the drug response is one-half of its asymptotic value. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by spline fitting. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the measured amounts of cellular constituents in the drug response are interpolated by model fitting to a parameterized function. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the parameterized function is a Hill function. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the inflection concentration of a cellular constituent for the drug composition is the inflection point parameter of the Hill function. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the expression sets are identified from a histogram of the inflection concentrations of the pluralities of cellular constituents, wherein each mode in the histogram identifies an expression set. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by visual inspection of the histogram. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the modes in the histogram are identified by an objective statistical test. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the objective statistical test is based on the Fisher Distance. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for bimodality of the histogram. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises determining the maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram, wherein value of the maximum Fisher Distance positively correlate with the levels of confidence that the histogram is bimodal. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance further comprises determining a confidence level for bimodality of the histogram, the confidence level being determined by a method comprising comparing the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram to an empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values for a hypothesis of unimodality. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a uniform distribution. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a triangular distribution. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values is a Guassian distribution. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is further determined from the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the probability is the fraction of the empirical distribution of maximum Fisher Distance values having values greater than the determined maximum Fisher Distance. 21. The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein the confidence level for bimodality of the histogram is the probability that the determined maximum Fisher Distance of the histogram is from a unimodal distribution subtracted from unity. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance is used to test for levels of multimodality greater than bimodality. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the objective statistical test based on the Fisher Distance comprises: (a) dividing the histogram into subintervals suspected of containing two modes; and (b) testing the subinterval of the histogram for bimodality. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of RNA species. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type are obtained by a method comprising contacting one or more gene transcript arrays (i) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition, and (ii) with RNA, or with cDNA derived therefrom, from a cell of the cell type that is not exposed to the levels of exposure to the drug composition. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the cellular constituents comprise abundances of a plurality of protein species. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising contacting an antibody array with proteins from a cell of the cell type, wherein the antibody array comprises a surface with attached antibodies, the antibodies being capable of binding with the plurality of protein species. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the measured amounts of the abundances of the plurality of protein species are obtained by a method comprising performing two-dimensional electrophoresis of proteins from a cell of the cell type. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the cellular constituents comprise activities of a plurality of protein species present in the cell type. 30. A method for determining the presence of a number of primary targets of a drug composition in a cell type, said method comprising: (a) providing a drug response, said drug response comprising measured amounts of a plurality of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of exposure of said cell type to the drug composition, by a method comprising measuring said plurality of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of exposure of said cell type to the drug composition; (b) determining an inflection concentration of the drug composition for each cellular constituent in the plurality of cellular constituents, the inflection concentration of the drug composition for a cellular constituent in the plurality of cellular constituents being the level of exposure to the drug composition at which the cellular constituent is increased or decreased in the drug response; and (c) determining the number of expression sets of cellular constituents, each expression set comprising those cellular constituents with similar inflection concentrations for the drug composition, wherein each expression set indicates the presence of a different primary target of the drug composition in the cell type. 31. A method for determining the presence of a number of primary targets of a change in physical environment of a cell type, said method comprising determining a number of expression sets wherein: (a) the expression sets each comprise a plurality of cellular constituents, each cellular constituent in a single expression set having a similar inflection concentration for the change in physical environment; (b) the inflection concentration of the change in physical environment for a cellular constituent is the level of the change in physical environment at which the cellular constituent is increased or decreased by the change in physical environment in a response profile; and (c) the response profile comprises measured amounts of the pluralities of cellular constituents in a cell of the cell type at a plurality of levels of the change in physical environment, wherein each expression set indicates the presence of a different primary target of the change in physical environment. 