An electrical connector is disclosed that allows for relative twisting movement between cables or cords coupled thereto by absorbing any such twisting movement in shunts disposed internal to the connector. The shunts as well provide the communication between oppositely disposed prongs that extend from the connector housing in order to provide electrical continuity. In one form, the shunts coil around themselves internal to the connector housing as the shunts connect one side's prong to the other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrical connector for coupling a first cable to a second cable and allowing relative rotation therebetween, the electrical connector comprising: a housing; a first electrical terminal extending from one side of said housing and adapted to couple to the first cable; a second electrical terminal extending from another side of said housing and adapted to couple to the second cable; and a coiled shunt assembly internal to said housing and electrically coupling said first electrical terminal to said second electrical terminal. 2. The electrical connector of claim 1, wherein said first electrical terminal comprises a first pair of prongs embedded in and extending through a first wall rotatably retained by said housing, and said second electrical terminal comprises a second pair of prongs embedded in and extending through a second wall rotatably retained by said housing, and said coiled shunt assembly comprises a first coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to one prong of said first pair of prongs and at another end to a first rail internal to said housing, a second coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to another prong of said first pair of prongs and at another end to a second rail internal to said housing, a third coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to one prong of said second pair of prongs and at another end to said first rail, and a fourth coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to another prong of said second pair of prongs and at another end to said second rail. 3. The electrical connector of claim 2, wherein said first and second coiled shunts are naturally unbiased. 4. The electrical connector of claim 2, wherein said shunts are coiled strips of metal. 5. The electrical connector of claim 1, wherein said first electrical terminal comprises a first prong embedded in and extending through a first wall rotatably retained by said housing, said second electrical terminal comprises a second prong embedded in and extending through a second wall rotatably retained by said housing, and said coiled shunt assembly comprises a first coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to said first prong and at another end to a rail internal to said housing, and a second coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to said second prong and at another end to said rail. 6. An electrical connector for coupling a first electrical cable to a second electrical cable, said electrical connector comprising: a cylindrical, electrically insulating housing defining an internal cavity with first and second open ends; a first wall rotatably retained by said housing at said one end; a second wall rotatably retained by said housing at said second end; a first terminal structure carried by said first wall; a second terminal structure carried by said second wall; and a shunt assembly disposed in said cavity and electrically coupling said first terminal structure to said second terminal structure, said shunt assembly being elastically twistable, whereby relative twisting between the first and second cables is absorbed. 7. The electrical connector of claim 6, wherein said housing includes an annular ledge on said first end with said first wall being axially retained thereby, and an annular retaining ring on said second end with said second wall being axially retained thereby. 8. The electrical connector of claim 6, wherein said first terminal structure comprises a first prong embedded in and extending through said first wall, said second terminal structure comprises a second prong embedded in and extending through said second wall, and said shunt assembly comprises a first coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to said first prong and at another end to a rail internal to said housing, and a second coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to said second prong and at another end to said rail. 9. The electrical connector of claim 7, wherein said first and second coiled shunts are 1/4" strips of an electrical conductor. 10. The electrical connector of claim 6, wherein first terminal structure comprises a first pair of prongs embedded in and extending through said first wall, and said second terminal structure comprises a second pair of prongs embedded in and extending through said second wall, and said shunt assembly comprises a first coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to one prong of said first pair of prongs and at another end to a first rail internal to said housing, a second coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to another prong of said first pair of prongs and at another end to a second rail internal to said housing, a third coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to one prong of said second pair of prongs and at another end to said first rail, and a fourth coiled shunt electrically coupled at one end to another prong of said second pair of prongs and at another end to said second rail. 11. The electrical connector of claim 7, wherein said coiled shunts are 1/4" strips of an electrical conductor. 12. An electrical coupling that allows relative rotational movement between a first end thereof adapted to couple to a first cable and a second end thereof adapted to couple to a second cable, the electrical coupling comprising: a cylindrical, non-electrically conducting housing defining an internal cavity, said housing having a radially inwardly extending ledge on the first end and defining a first opening, and a second opening on the second end; a first disc-shaped wall rotatably retained within said cavity by said ledge; a first rail disposed within said cavity and extending from an inner surface of said first disc-shaped wall toward said second opening and terminating at a point internal to said housing; a second rail disposed within said cavity and extending form an inner surface of said first disc-shaped wall toward said second opening and terminating at a point internal to said housing; a second disc-shaped wall disposed at said second end and abutting ends of said first and second rails, said second discshaped wall rotatably retained by said housing; an annular retaining ring disposed at said second opening and adjacent said second disc-shaped wall; a first pair of prongs extending from said cavity through said first wall and exterior of said outer housing; a second pair of prongs extending from said cavity through said second wall and exterior of said housing; a first shunt of a coiled, naturally unbiased electrical conductor disposed in said cavity and electrically coupling one prong of said first pair of prongs to said first rail; a second shunt of a coiled, naturally unbiased electrical conductor disposed in said cavity and electrically coupling another prong of said first pair of prongs to said second rail; a third shunt of a coiled, naturally unbiased electrical conductor disposed in said cavity and electrically coupling one prong of said second pair of prongs to said first rail; a fourth shunt of a coiled, naturally unbiased electrical conductor disposed in said cavity and electrically coupling another prong of said second pair of prongs to said second rail. 13. The electrical coupling of claim 7, wherein said shunts are fabricated from 1/4" strip metal. 14. The electrical coupling of claim 7, wherein said housing is fabricated from plastic. 