The present invention provides systems and methods for performing robotically-assisted surgical procedures on a patient. In particular, a three-component surgical system is provided that includes a non-sterile drive and control component, a sterilizable end effector or surgical tool and an intermediate connector component that includes mechanical elements for coupling the surgical tool with the drive and control component and for transferring motion and electrical signals therebetween. The drive and control component is shielded from the sterile surgical site, the surgical tool is sterilizable and disposable and the intermediate connector is sterilizable and reusable. In this manner, the intermediate connector can be sterilized after a surgical procedure without damaging the motors or electrical connections within the drive and control component of the robotic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field comprising: a surgical tool; a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions; a sterile drape covering at least the manipulator arm of the manipulator assembly to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field; and an adaptor for coupling the distal end portion of the manipulator arm with the surgical tool and transferring at least two degrees of motion from the manipulator assembly to the tool, the adaptor extending through the sterile drape and including one or more electrical connectors for transferring an electrical signal from the manipulator arm to the surgical tool and from the surgical tool to the manipulator arm. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the surgical tool comprises an instrument. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the surgical tool comprises an endoscope for viewing a treatment site. 4. The system of 1 wherein the adaptor is sterilizable, and includes an exposed portion on a side of the drape opposite the manipulator arm, the adaptor being attached to the manipulator arm such that the exposed portion remains sterile. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the manipulator assembly further includes a drive assembly coupled to the proximal end portion of the manipulator arm for providing at least two degrees of freedom to the surgical tool, the sterile drape covering both the manipulator arm and the drive assembly to shield the arm and drive assembly from the sterile field. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a controller and means for sensing tactile sensations resulting from contact between the surgical tool and the patient and means for providing tactile feedback to the controller corresponding to the tactile sensations on the surgical tool. 7. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field comprising: a surgical tool; a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions; a sterile drape covering at least the manipulator arm of the manipulator assembly to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field; and an adaptor for coupling the distal end portion of the manipulator arm with the surgical tool and transferring at least two degrees of motion from the manipulator assembly to the tool, the adaptor extending through the sterile drape and including one or more electrical connectors for transferring an electrical signal from the manipulator arm to the surgical tool and from the surgical tool to the manipulator arm; the tool comprising a surgical instrument, said instrument further comprising a wrist unit having a shaft with a distal wrist coupled to the instrument and a proximal end removably coupled to the adaptor. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the wrist unit shaft and the instrument are rotatably coupled to the adaptor for rotation about a longitudinal axis of the shaft relative to the adaptor. 9. The system of 7 wherein the adaptor includes one or more motion feed-throughs for transferring motion from the manipulator assembly to the instrument. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein one of the motion feed-throughs provides rotation of the instrument about the distal wrist of the wrist unit. 11. The system of claim 9 wherein the surgical tool includes an end effector, one of the motion feed-throughs providing articulation of the end effector. 12. The system of claim 7 wherein the manipulator arm includes a remote center positioner constraining lateral movement of the wrist unit shaft to pivotal motion about a fixed spherical center of rotation at a point along the wrist unit shaft. 13. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field comprising: a surgical tool; a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions; a sterile drape covering at least the manipulator arm of the manipulator assembly to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field; an adaptor for coupling the distal end portion of the manipulator arm with the surgical tool and transferring at least two degrees of motion from the manipulator assembly to the tool, the adaptor extending through the sterile drape; a cannula defining an inner lumen for receiving the surgical tool and providing access through a percutaneous penetration in the patient; and a sterilizable cannula adaptor extending through the drape and coupling the cannula to the distal end portion of the manipulator arm. 14. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field comprising: a surgical tool, wherein the surgical tool is an instrument; a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions; a sterile drape covering at least the manipulator arm of the manipulator assembly to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field; an adaptor for coupling the distal end portion of the manipulator arm with the surgical tool and transferring at least two degrees of motion from the manipulator assembly to the tool, the adaptor extending through the sterile drape; a wrist unit having a shaft with a distal wrist coupled to the instrument and a proximal end removably coupled to the adaptor; and means for inhibiting the number of times which the wrist unit can be used in a surgical procedure. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the limiting means includes means for counting each time the wrist unit is coupled to or decoupled from the adaptor. 16. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field comprising: a surgical tool, wherein the surgical tool is an instrument; a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions; a sterile drape covering at least the manipulator arm of the manipulator assembly to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field; an adaptor for coupling the distal end portion of the manipulator arm with the surgical tool and transferring at least two degrees of motion from the manipulator assembly to the tool, the adaptor extending through the sterile drape; a wrist unit having a shaft with a distal wrist coupled to the instrument and a proximal end removably coupled to the adaptor; and a transmission unit coupled to the manipulator arm and covered by the sterile drape, the transmission unit having an axially movable carriage coupled to the adaptor and the wrist unit for axially reciprocating the adaptor, the wrist unit and the instrument. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the transmission unit transmits at least three degrees of motion from the manipulator arm, through the adaptor to the wrist unit and the instrument, the degrees of motion including rotation of the wrist unit and the instrument relative to the adaptor, rotation of the instrument about the distal wrist of the wrist unit shaft and actuation of the end effector. 18. A telerobotic system for manipulating surgical tools at a surgical site within a sterile field comprising: a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions; a sterile drape covering at least the manipulator arm of the manipulator assembly to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field; an adaptor for coupling the distal end portion of the manipulator arm with the surgical tool and transferring at least two degrees of motion from the manipulator assembly to the tool, the adaptor extending through the sterile drape; one or more electrical connectors for transmitting electrical data signals between the controller and the surgical tool through the drape; a controller located in a remote position from the manipulator assembly; and a servomechanism coupling the controller to the manipulator arm for remote control of the manipulator arm. 19. The telerobotic system of claim 18 further comprising a viewing scope for viewing the surgical site, and a video display operatively coupled to the viewing scope for producing an image of the surgical site adjacent the controller. 20. The system of claim 18 further comprising means for sensing tactile sensations resulting from contact between the surgical tool and the patient and means for providing tactile feedback to the controller corresponding to the tactile sensations on the surgical tool. 21. The system of claim 18 wherein the adaptor is sterilizable and includes one or more motion feed-throughs for transferring motion from the manipulator assembly to the instrument, the adaptor further including an exposed portion on a side of the drape opposite the manipulator arm, the adaptor being attached to the manipulator arm such that the exposed portion remains sterile. 22. The system of claim 18 further comprising a wrist unit having a shaft with a distal wrist coupled to the instrument and a proximal end removably coupled to the adaptor, wherein the wrist unit shaft and the instrument are rotatably coupled to the adaptor for rotation about a longitudinal axis of the shaft relative to the adaptor. 23. The system of claim 18 wherein the manipulator assembly further includes a drive assembly coupled to the proximal end portion of the manipulator arm and the servomechanism for providing at least two degrees of freedom to the surgical tool, the sterile drape covering both the manipulator arm and the drive assembly to shield the arm and drive assembly from the sterile field. 24. A method for performing a surgical procedure within a sterile field with a robotic surgical system comprising: covering portions of a manipulator arm with a sterile drape to shield the arm from the sterile field; attaching a sterile adaptor to a distal end portion of the manipulator arm through the sterile drape; releasably coupling a sterile surgical tool to the robotic surgical system by coupling a tubular structure to the robotic surgical system, inserting an elongate shaft of the surgical tool through the tubular structure, and attaching the surgical tool to the adaptor; and introducing at least a portion of the tubular structure into an aperture in a body wall of the patient and introducing the surgical tool to a target site within the body of the patient. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the sterile adaptor includes an exposed portion on a side of the drape opposite the manipulator arm, the sterile adaptor being attached to the manipulator arm such that the exposed portion remains sterile. 26. The method of claim 24 articulating the surgical tool with a drive assembly coupled to a proximal end portion of the manipulator arm and shielding the drive assembly from the sterile field with the sterile drape. 27. The method of claim 24 further comprising transferring motion of the manipulator arm through the adaptor to the instrument. 28. The method of claim 24 further comprising removably coupling a wrist unit to the adaptor and attaching a surgical instrument to a distal wrist of the wrist unit. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising pivoting the instrument about the distal wrist in response to input from the manipulator assembly. 30. The method of claim 28 further comprising rotating the wrist unit and the instrument about the shaft axis and articulating an end effector on the instrument in response to input from the manipulator assembly. 31. The method of claim 24 further comprising constraining movement of the surgical tool about a fixed spherical center of rotation. 32. The method of claim 24 further comprising remotely controlling movement of the manipulator arm with an input device. 33. The method of claim 32 further comprising viewing an image of the target site on a video display remotely positioned from the target site. 34. The method of claim 24, wherein said surgical tool is introduced into the patient by inserting the portion of the tubular structure into said aperture, and then inserting said surgical tool into said aperture through said tubular structure. 35. The method of claim 24, further comprising exchanging said surgical tool for a second surgical tool, wherein the portion of the tubular structure remains in the aperture during the tool exchanging step. 36. A method for performing a surgical procedure within a sterile field with a robotic surgical system comprising: covering portions of a manipulator arm with a sterile drape to shield the arm from the sterile field; attaching a sterile adaptor to a distal end portion of the manipulator arm through the sterile drape; attaching a sterile surgical tool to the adaptor; introducing the surgical tool to a target site on the patient with the manipulator arm; and transmitting one or more electrical signals through the adaptor between the manipulator arm and the surgical tool. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein a shaft of a wrist unit is coupled to the manipulator arm and a wrist of the wrist unit is coupled to the surgical tool, and further comprising constraining lateral movement of the wrist unit shaft to pivotal motion about a fixed spherical center of rotation at a point along the wrist unit shaft with a remote center positioner. 38. A method for performing a surgical procedure within a sterile field with a robotic surgical system comprising: covering portions of a manipulator arm with a sterile drape to shield the arm from the sterile field; attaching a sterile adaptor to a distal end portion of the manipulator arm through the sterile drape; attaching a sterile surgical tool to the adaptor; attaching a sterile cannula adaptor through the sterile drape to the distal end portion of the manipulator arm; attaching a cannula to the cannula adaptor; introducing a surgical instrument through the cannula into a body cavity in the patient; and introducing the surgical tool to a target site on the patient with the manipulator arm. 39. A method for performing a surgical procedure within a sterile field with a robotic surgical system comprising: covering portions of a manipulator arm with a sterile drape to shield the arm from the sterile field; attaching a sterile adaptor to a distal end portion of the manipulator arm through the sterile drape; attaching a sterile surgical tool to the adaptor by removably coupling a wrist unit to the adaptor and attaching a surgical instrument to a distal wrist of the wrist unit; introducing the surgical tool to a target site on the patient with the manipulator arm; and limiting a number of times which the wrist unit is used in a surgical procedure. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein the limiting step includes counting each time the wrist unit is coupled to the adaptor. 41. A method for performing a surgical procedure within a sterile field with a robotic surgical system comprising: covering portions of a manipulator arm with a sterile drape to shield the arm from the sterile field; attaching a sterile adaptor to a distal end portion of the manipulator arm through the sterile drape by coupling the adaptor to a movable carriage on the manipulator arm, the carriage being covered by the sterile drape; attaching a sterile surgical tool to the adaptor; introducing the surgical tool to a target site on the patient with the manipulator arm; and axially moving the carriage to axially move the surgical tool relative to the manipulator arm. 