An apparatus for monitoring the inclination of a wafer residing within a pocket of a semiconductor processing chamber susceptor. The apparatus of the present invention includes a laser beam source that is positioned to direct a laser beam onto the top surface of a wafer that has been positioned within a susceptor pocket. A laser receiver is positioned to detect the laser beam after it has been reflected off the surface of the wafer. The laser receiver emits an output signal to a visual or audible indicator that indicates whether or not the wafer is properly positioned within the pocket of the susceptor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer processing assembly comprising: a high temperature processing chamber having a susceptor, said susceptor having a pocket for holding a wafer; an automated wafer handling system for positioning said wafer into said pocket of said susceptor, said wafer handling system being controlled by a controller; a laser source positioned to direct a laser beam onto the top surface of said wafer during high temperature processing of said wafer in said processing chamber, said laser beam having a wavelength shorter than that of infrared radiation; a laser receiver for directly detecting said laser beam after said laser beam is reflected from said top surface of said wafer when said wafer is positioned substantially horizontally within said pocket; and a wafer inclination indicator coupled to said light sensor. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said laser beam has a wavelength within the range of 500 to 600 nanometers. 3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said wafer inclination indicator comprises a visual display. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said wafer inclination indicator comprises an audible alarm. 5. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said laser receiver produces an output signal to said wafer handling system controller. 6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said laser source and said laser receiver are located outside said processing chamber. 7. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising heat lamps that provide infrared radiant heat to said chamber and wherein said laser receiver detects said laser beam when said chamber is heated by said heat lamps. 8. A semiconductor wafer processing assembly comprising: a processing chamber having a susceptor, said susceptor having a pocket for holding a wafer; heat lamps that provide infrared radiant heat to said chamber; a light source positioned to direct a light beam onto the top surface of said wafer; a light sensor for directly detecting said light beam after said light beam is reflected from said top surface of said wafer when said wafer is positioned substantially horizontally within said pocket and when said heat lamps provide infrared radiant heat; and a wafer inclination indicator coupled to said light sensor. 9. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said light beam has a wavelength shorter than that of infrared radiation. 10. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said light beam has a wavelength of less than 630 nanometers. 11. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said light beam has a wavelength within the range of 500 to 600 nanometers. 12. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said wafer inclination indicator comprises a visual display. 13. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said wafer inclination indicator comprises an audible alarm. 14. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said light sensor produces an output signal to said wafer handling system controller. 15. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said light source and said light sensor are located outside said processing chamber. 16. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said light source is a laser source and said light beam is a laser beam. 17. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said heat lamps heat said chamber above about 600 degrees Celsius. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said light sensor detects said light beam when said chamber is heated above about 600 degrees Celsius. 