A method of forming an oxide on a substrate. According to the method of the present invention a substrate is placed in a chamber. An oxygen containing gas and a hydrogen containing gas are then fed into the chamber. The oxygen containing gas and the hydrogen containing gas are then caused to react with one another to form water vapor in the chamber. The water vapor then oxidizes the substrate.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said Chamber near said substrate to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O) in said chamber wherein the combined partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas is less than atmospheric pressure prior to reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas; and oxidizing said substrate with said water. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: heating said substrate to a temperature sufficient to initiate said reaction between said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said substrate is heated to a temperature of at least 600.degree. C. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the combined partial pressure of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas is less than or equal to 150 torr during said reaction. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said oxygen containing gas is oxygen (O.sub.2). 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said oxygen containing gas is nitrous oxide (N.sub.2 O). 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said hydrogen containing gas is a hydrocarbon. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said hydrogen containing gas is hydrogen gas (H.sub.2). 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said hydrogen containing gas is ammonia (NH.sub.3). 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said hydrogen containing gas is a deuterium. 11. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate having a silicon film in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; heating said substrate to a temperature sufficient to cause a reaction between said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O) wherein said reaction is initiated by said heated substrate; and oxidizing said silicon film with said water vapor to form said oxide. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of generating a combined partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber of less than one atmosphere prior to reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the combined partial pressure of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas is less than or equal to 150 torr during said reaction. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said heating step heats said substrate to a temperature of at least 600.degree. C. 15. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate having a silicon film in a reaction chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; generating a combined partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas of less than one atmosphere; heating said substrate; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O), wherein said reaction is initiated by said heated substrate; and oxidizing said silicon film with said water vapor to form said oxide. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said combined partial pressure is less than or equal to 150 torr while reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2). 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said wafer is heated to a temperature of at least 600.degree. C. 18. A method of growing an oxide layer in a rapid thermal processor, said method comprising the steps of: placing a silicon wafer having a silicon film in a reaction chamber of said rapid thermal processor; heating said substrate to a temperature greater than or equal to 600.degree. C.; providing oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber; providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber; generating a combined partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas of less than or equal to 150 torr in said chamber; reacting said oxygen gas and said hydrogen gas in said chamber to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O) in said chamber, wherein said reaction is initiated near said heated substrate; and oxidizing said silicon film and said silicon wafer with said water vapor (H.sub.2 O). 19. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; reacting said oxygen containing gas with said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near the surface of said substrate to form an ambient wherein said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas have a combined partial pressure of between 1 torr and 50 torr prior to reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 20. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; generating a combined partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber is between 5-15 Torr; reacting said oxygen containing gas with said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near the surface of said substrate to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 21. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate in a reaction chamber; heating said substrate; providing oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber and providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber wherein said hydrogen gas and said oxygen gas are provided in a hydrogen gas to oxygen gas ratio between 2:98 and 2:1; reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient in said chamber wherein said reaction is initiated by said heated substrate wherein said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas have a combined partial pressure of between 1 torr and 50 torr prior to reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 22. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate in a reaction chamber; heating said substrate; providing oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber and providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber wherein said hydrogen gas and said oxygen gas are provided in a hydrogen gas to oxygen gas ratio between 2:98 and 2:1; generating a combined partial pressure of said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) between 5-15 Torr; and reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient in said chamber wherein said reaction is initiated by said heated substrate; and oxidizing said substrate with said water vapor. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said ratio of hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) to oxygen gas (O.sub.2) is between 2:98 and 1:2. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said ratio of said hydrogen gas to said oxygen gas is approximately 33:66, respectively. 25. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising: placing a silicon substrate in a chamber; providing oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber and; providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber; reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) in said chamber near said substrate to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O) in said chamber; and oxidizing said silicon substrate with said water vapor (H.sub.2 O). 26. A method of forming an oxide, said method of comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; provide oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber; providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber; heating said substrate to a temperature of at least 600.degree. C.; reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) in said chamber near said substrate to form water (H.sub.2 O) in said chamber; and oxidizing said substrate with said water (H.sub.2 O). 27. A method of oxidizing silicon, said method comprising: placing a substrate having silicon in a chamber; providing oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber; providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber; heating said substrate to a temperature sufficient to cause a reaction between said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) and said oxygen gas (O.sub.2); reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) in said chamber to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O) wherein said reaction is initiated by said heated substrate; and oxidizing said silicon with said water vapor. 28. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising: placing a substrate having silicon in a chamber; heating said substrate in said chamber to a temperature of at least 600.degree. C.; providing oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber; providing hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) into said chamber; reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) in said chamber to form water vapor (H.sub.2 O) wherein said reaction is initiated near said heated substrate and wherein the combined partial pressure of said oxygen (O.sub.2) gas and said hydrogen (H.sub.2) gas is less than atmospheric pressure prior to reacting said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) and said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2); and oxidizing said silicon with said water vapor. 