An apparatus and method for aligning various components of a semiconductor processing system is disclosed. A calibration tool positioned on the main body of the processing chamber is used to align the coordinates of the susceptor, wafer lifting pins, susceptor shaft, wafer handling blade and the rotational axis of the susceptor with that of the main body. By aligning the various components to a common coordinate system, it is possible to more precisely control the angular orientation of a wafer being processed with that of the processing gas flow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration tool for a semiconductor processing chamber comprising: a substrate having a top surface and a bottom surface and a center axis; at least three protuberances extending from the bottom surface, each protuberance having a distal end, the distal ends defining a first plane; and at least three spring loaded posts extending radially from the substrate. 2. The calibration tool of claim 1 further comprising at least one through opening extending from the top surface to the bottom surface of the substrate. 3. The calibration tool of claim 2 wherein the through opening has a shoulder dividing the through opening into an upper aperture and a lower aperture, the upper aperture having a larger diameter than the lower aperture, the surface of the shoulder lying in a second plane that is substantially co-planar with the first plane. 4. The calibration tool of claim 1 wherein the bottom surface of the substrate has three protuberances spaced 120 degrees apart. 5. The calibration tool of claim 1 wherein the substrate has three spring loaded posts spaced 120 degrees apart. 6. The calibration tool of claim 1 wherein the substrate is circular. 7. The calibration tool of claim 1 further comprising a measuring device positioned on the substrate, the measuring device comprising: a light transmitter for producing a target; a light sensor for observing the target; and logic circuit coupled to the light sensor for correlating the observed target to an inclination measurement. 8. The calibration tool of claim 2 wherein the through opening is configured to receive a dial indicator. 