A test system for testing numerous parts simultaneously. A stack of test boards is provided in a test chamber. Each of the test boards has a region of contactors on it. To perform a test, trays are inserted between the boards in the stack and aligned with the regions of contactors. A mechanism is then activated to press the trays towards the boards, thereby making contact between the contactors and devices on the trays. The test system is described in conjunction with a burn-in oven. Processing time is reduced because individual handling of chips is significantly reduced.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A test system for semiconductor chips, comprising: a) a test chamber; b) a plurality of boards mounted in parallel in the test chamber, each having a plurality of regions, each of the regions having a plurality of contactors mounted thereon; c) a plurality of trays carrying a plurality of integrated circuit chips, each tray aligned with one of the regions, and each tray having a plurality of compliant regions receiving an integrated circuit chip; and d) a compliant mechanism disposed above each of the plurality of trays. 2. The test system of claim 1 wherein the test chamber comprises a burn-in oven. 3. The test system of claim 1 wherein the compliant mechanism comprises a plurality of bladders, each bladder mounted above one of the plurality of boards. 4. The test system of claim 3 wherein the bladder is inflated with air. 5. The test system of claim 3 wherein the bladder is inflated with fluid. 6. The test system of claim 5 wherein the bladder is inflated with circulating fluid at an elevated temperature. 7. The test system of claim 1 additionally comprising a robot positioned to insert and remove the trays into the test chamber. 8. The test system of claim 1 wherein each of the tray comprises a plurality of platforms, each adapted to hold an integrated circuit chip, and each tray further has a pair of compliant arms supporting each platform. 9. The test system of claim 1 wherein each of the boards comprises alignment features holding the plurality of trays in a stack. 10. A test system for semiconductor chips, comprising: a) a test chamber; b) a plurality of boards mounted in parallel in the test chamber, each having a plurality of regions, each of the regions having a plurality of contactors mounted thereon; c) a plurality of trays carrying plurality of integrated circuit chips, each try aligned with one of the regions; and d) a plurality of bladders, each having a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet and each positioned proximate at least one tray whereby, when inflated, each bladder presses at least one tray into a board. 11. The test system of claim 10 wherein the bladders comprise fluid filled bladders having heated fluid circulating therethrough. 12. A method of operating a semiconductor tester comprising the steps of: a) providing a plurality of boards in a test chamber, each having a plurality of regions each with a plurality of contactors thereon; b) providing a plurality of trays in the test chamber, each tray carrying a plurality of integrated circuit chips, and aligning each of the trays with one of the regions; c) pressing each of the trays towards a respective region by use of a fluid filled bladder having temperature controlled fluid circulating therethrough; and d) conducting electrical tests on the plurality of chips in each of the plurality of trays. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the test chamber comprises a burn in oven. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of providing a plurality of trays comprises inserting the trays into the test chamber after the boards are mounted in the test chamber. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of providing a plurality of trays comprises placing the plurality of trays on the plurality of boards before the boards are inserted into the test chamber. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of providing a plurality of boards comprises providing a stack of boards. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of pressing comprises pressing with fluid filled bladders made of heat resistant silicone. 18. The test system of claim 1 wherein each of the regions on each of the boards is bracketed by a plurality of stops. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of pressing comprises pressing with a bladder made of multiple layers of film. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of pressing comprises pressing with a bladder made from a film material bonded to a frame. 