A removable robotic sensor assembly is removably coupled to a robotic arm having a work tool secured thereto. The removable robotic sensor assembly includes a sensor for obtaining data from a work piece. The removable robot sensor assembly further includes a gripper assembly coupled to the sensor. The gripper assembly operable to alternately couple to and decouple from at least one of the work tool and the robotic arm when said work tool is secured to the robotic arm. The gripper assembly and said sensor form a sensor assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. A removable robotic sensor assembly for use in connection with a robotic arm having a work tool secured thereto, said removable robotic sensor assembly comprising: a) a sensor for obtaining data from a work piece; and b) a gripper assembly coupled to said sensor, said gripper assembly operable to alternately couple to and decouple from at least one of said work tool and said robotic arm when said work tool is secured to said robotic arm, wherein said gripper assembly and said sensor form a sensor assembly. 2. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising a docking assembly operable to couple and decouple from said sensor assembly, wherein said docking assembly is further operable to couple to said sensor assembly when said gripper assembly is decoupled from said at least one of said work tool and robotic arm. 3. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 2, wherein: said sensor assembly further includes a first alignment mechanism; said docking assembly further includes a second alignment mechanism; said first alignment mechanism is configured to engage said second alignment mechanism when said sensor assembly is coupled to said docking assembly. 4. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 3, wherein said first alignment mechanism and said second alignment mechanism include at least one locating pin and at least one bushing. 5. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 2, wherein: said docking assembly includes a swing arm, and said swing arm is operable to rotatably move into contact with said sensor assembly to secure said sensor assembly to said docking assembly. 6. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 1, wherein said gripper assembly includes first and second opposing jaws, said first and second opposing jaws configured to engage said at least one of said work tool and robotic arm. 7. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 6, wherein a first mating feature is secured to at least one of said work tool and robotic arm, and wherein: at least one of said first and second opposing jaws includes a second mating feature, said second mating feature configured to engage said first mating feature when said first and second opposing jaws engage said at least one of said work tool and robotic arm, thereby fixing said sensor assembly in a predetermined registration with respect to said robotic arm. 8. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 7, further comprising a collar assembly secured to at least one of said work tool and robotic arm, said collar assembly including said first mating feature. 9. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 8, wherein said first mating feature and said second mating feature comprise a pin and a pin receiving hole. 10. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 7, wherein said second mating feature comprises at least one of a pin and a pin receiving hole. 11. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 6, wherein said gripper assembly further comprises a pneumatic actuator coupled to said first and second opposing jaws, said pneumatic actuator operable to cause said first and second opposing jaws to alternately couple to and decouple from at least one of said work tool and said robotic arm. 12. The removable robotic sensor assembly of claim 1, wherein said sensor further comprises an optical sensor. 13. A method of performing an operation on a work piece using a robotic arm having a work tool secured thereto, the method comprising: a) coupling a sensor assembly to at least one of the robotic arm and the work tool; b) employing the robotic arm to move the sensor assembly to allow the sensor assembly to obtain data regarding the work piece; c) removing the sensor assembly from said at least one of the robotic arm and the work tool; and d) employing the robotic arm to move the work tool to perform a work operation on the work piece based in part on the obtained data. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the sensor assembly further comprises a sensor and a gripper assembly, and wherein: step a) further comprises coupling the sensor assembly to said at least one of the robotic arm and the work tool using the gripper assembly, and step c) further comprises removing the sensor assembly from said at least one of the robotic arm and the work tool using the gripper assembly. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein step a) further comprises: decoupling the sensor assembly from a docking assembly after the sensor assembly is coupled to said at least one of the robotic arm and work tool. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein step c) further comprises coupling the sensor assembly to the docking assembly before the sensor assembly is decoupled from said at least one of the robotic arm and work tool. 17. A robot assembly, comprising: a) a robotic arm; b) a work tool secured to said robotic arm; c) a sensor for obtaining data from a work piece; and d) a gripper assembly coupled to said sensor, said gripper assembly operable to alternately couple to and decouple from at least one of said work tool and said robotic arm when said work tool is secured to said robotic arm, wherein said gripper assembly and said sensor form a sensor assembly. 18. The robot assembly of claim 17, further comprising a docking assembly operable to couple to and decouple from said sensor assembly, wherein said docking assembly couples to said sensor assembly when said gripper assembly is decoupled from said at least one of the work tool and robotic arm. 19. The robot assembly of claim 18, wherein: said sensor assembly further includes a first alignment mechanism; said docking assembly further includes a second alignment mechanism; and said first alignment mechanism is configured to engage said second alignment mechanism when said robot assembly is coupled to said docking assembly. 20. The robot assembly of claim 19, wherein said first alignment mechanism and said second alignment mechanism include at least one locating pin and at least one bushing. 21. The robot assembly of claim 18, wherein: said docking assembly includes a swing arm, and said swing arm is rotated into contact with said sensor assembly to secure said sensor assembly to said docking assembly. 22. The robot assembly of claim 17, wherein said gripper assembly includes first and second opposing jaws, said first and second opposing jaws configured to engage said at least one of the work tool and robotic arm. 23. The robot assembly of claim 22, further comprising: a first mating feature secured to at least one of the work tool and robotic arm; a second mating feature secured to at least one of said first and second opposing jaws; and wherein said first mating feature is configured to engage said second mating feature when said first and second opposing jaws engage at least one of said work tool and robotic arm, thereby fixing said sensor assembly in a predetermined registration with respect to said robotic arm. 24. The robot assembly of claim 23, further comprising a collar assembly secured to at least one of said work tool and robotic arm, said collar assembly including said first mating feature. 25. The robot assembly of claim 23, wherein said first mating feature and said second mating feature comprise a pin and a pin receiving hole. 26. The robot assembly of claim 22, wherein: said gripper assembly further comprises a pneumatic actuator coupled to said first and second opposing jaws, said pneumatic actuator operable to cause said first and second opposing jaws to alternately couple to and decouple from said at least one of the work tool and said robotic arm. 27. The robot assembly of claim 17, wherein said sensor further comprises an optical sensor. 