A system for handling stiff but flexible discs, particularly semiconductor wafers, is capable of allowing processing on both sides of a wafer. Optical beams are employed to detect a wafer's edge, ascertain a wafer position and determine the size of the wafer. A wafer hand assembly member is slipped under a wafer, or between parallel stacked but spaced wafers, and one or more fingers are rotated 90.degree. to a position perpendicular to the plane of the stiff hand assembly member. The hand assembly also has one or more posts positioned perpendicular to the surface of the hand assembly. The finger(s) and post(s) constitute three upright projections forming the corners of a triangle with the wafer to be grasped there between. A translator solenoid, through an arm, controls the lateral location of one finger or post moving that finger or post toward the other two stationary fingers or post(s) of the translator solenoid, grasping the wafer with controlled traction force between the fixed posts and the moveable finger. The traction force is controlled by the amount of driving energy fed to the translator solenoid. Likewise, methods using the apparatus of the system of the present invention are taught.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for handling wafers and the like substrate means, comprising, in combination: a hand assembly; a means for grasping, transporting and releasing said substrate means to be handled; at least a control means for programming and implementing a desired sequence of operations, and grasping pressure control means dependent on the driving force fed to the means for grasping wherein said means for grasping, transporting and releasing said substrate means to be handled further comprise: a pair of fixed posts each having a central axis substantially perpendicular to the hand assembly; a rotating finger, means for positioning the axis of the rotating finger parallel to the axes of the fixed posts; and means to reversibly move the axis of the rotating finger toward the axes of the fixed posts said means for positioning the axis of the rotating finger parallel to the axes of the fixed posts comprising a finger translating solenoid or voice coil. 2. The system of claim 1 further including an optical means for detecting a local position and orientation of a substrate means to be handled. 3. The system of claim 1, said means for grasping, transporting and releasing said substrate means to be handled further comprising at least one of an electromechanical and a fluid actuated system for providing positive lift and retention. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the grasping pressure control means is an electrically activated solenoid and the grasping pressure is controlled by varying the current fed to the solenoid. 5. The system of claim 1 further including measuring means for determining the dimensions of a wafer. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said means to reversibly move the axis of the finger-like projection toward the axes of the fixed posts comprises a finger rotating solenoid and a finger actuating rod. 7. A method for handling wafers, and related compact planar devices without damaging their surface integrity, the method comprising the steps of: providing a robotic wafer hand assembly equipped with at least three posts, the posts being positioned perpendicular to the plane of the wafer with at least one of said posts being rotational from a position in the plane of the wafer to a position perpendicular to the plane of the wafer and at least one of the posts being movable toward the one or more other posts to grasp a wafer there between, and optical sensing means, said robotic wafer hand assembly being mountable on other robotic systems for positioning; gathering a plurality of data regarding the relative position and orientation of a plurality of wafers, the actuating rod being connected to the rotating finger; grasping a wafer between the posts in a central portion of said robotic wafer; locking the wafer between the fixed posts and the finger; transporting the wafer to a desired location; processing the wafer; releasing said wafer into a second desired location; and repeating each of said steps for a subsequent wafer. 8. The method of claim 7, said grasping step further comprising the steps of: moving said robotic wafer hand assembly parallel to the planar surface of a wafer; and moving at least one rotating finger disposed at a distal end thereof from a position in the plane of the wafer hand assembly to a position substantially perpendicular to the plane of the wafer hand assembly. 9. The method of claim 7, said locking step further comprising the steps of: turning the finger 90.degree. by way of a rotator solenoid; and positioning said robotic wafer hand assembly adjacent a planar surface of a wafer. 10. The method of claim 7, said locking step further comprising the step of moving at least one rotating finger toward the other posts which are fixed in position causing the wafer to be trapped between the posts fixed in position and the rotating finger with a predetermined tension applied to the wafer. 11. The method of claim 7, said locking step further comprising the step of moving one of the posts which is a translational post toward a point centrally located between the rotational posts causing the wafer to be trapped between the translational post and the rotating posts with a predetermined tension applied to the wafer. 12. The method of claim 7, said locking step further comprising the step of moving the rotating finger by way of the translator solenoid. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the tension applied to the wafer is controlled by varying the current supplied to a rod movement actuator, said rod movement actuator controlling the lateral movement of the actuating rod attached to the rotating finger. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the tension applied to the wafer is controlled by varying the current supplied to a rod movement actuator, said rod movement actuator controlling the lateral movement of the translational post toward the rotating fingers. 15. A system for handling wafers and the like substrate means, comprising, in combination: a hand assembly, a means for grasping, transporting and releasing said substrate means to be handled, at least a control means for implementing a desired sequence of operations, and grasping pressure control means dependent on the driving force fed to the means for grasping, said means for grasping comprising three posts mounted on the hand assembly, at least one of the posts being moveable from a position in the plane of the hand assembly to a position perpendicular to the plane of the hand assembly the remaining posts being fixed in an orientation perpendicular to the plane of the hand assembly at least one movable post being moveable translationally toward the other posts along the plane of the hand assembly, the at least one rotational post and at least one translational post being either the same post or a different post. 