An actuating device is taught for use with a robotic arm having a linear actuator which includes an actuated portion and a stationary portion with a tool device supported by the actuated portion. The actuating device includes a bracket attached to the stationary potion of the linear actuator with bracket presenting an engaging surface. There is a mechanical assembly for controlling rotation of parts acquired by the tool device which is attached to the actuated member of the linear actuator of the robotic arm. The mechanical assembly includes a displacement linkage member and a rotatable subassembly. The displacement linkage member contacts the engaging surface when the mechanical assembly is raised to a predetermined height through operation of the linear actuator portion. By raising the mechanical assembly above the predetermined height, the displacement linkage member is caused to drive rotation of the rotatable subassembly. A spring is provided to normally bias the displacement linkage member to a home position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An actuating device for use with a robotic arm having a vertical linear actuator and a tool device attached thereto, said actuating device comprising: (a) a predetermined length of cable slidably residing in a sleeve, said predetermined length of cable having a proximal end extending beyond a first end of said sleeve and a distal end extending beyond a second end of said sleeve; (b) a button affixed to said proximal end; (c) means for supporting said first end of said sleeve from said vertical linear actuator such that said button is raised or lowered when an actuated portion of the vertical linear actuator is raised or lowered; and (d) a collar member attached to the robotic arm above the vertical linear actuator, said collar member presenting an engaging surface for engaging said button when the vertical linear actuator is raised to a predetermined height thereby causing said cable to slide within said sleeve. 2. An actuating device as recited in claim 1 wherein: said second end of said sleeve is attached to said tool device. 3. An actuating device as recited in claim 1 further comprising: means for biasing said cable to a home position relative to said cable sleeve. 4. An actuating device as recited in claim 1 wherein: said means for supporting said first end is a collar mounted to the vertical linear actuator. 5. An actuating device as recited in claim 4 further comprising: a cable mounting bracket affixed to said cable sleeve proximate to said first end, said cable mounting bracket being magnetically supported from said collar. 6. An actuating device as recited in claim 4 further comprising: a cable mounting bracket affixed to a cable sleeve terminator attached to said first end of said sleeve, said cable mounting bracket being magnetically supported from said collar. 7. An actuating device as recited in claim 4 further comprising: a piston affixed to distal end of said cable. 8. An actuating device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: (a) a housing associated with the tool device; and (b) a rotatable subassembly in said housing, said piston driving rotation of said rotatable subassembly when the actuated portion is raised above the predetermined height thereby causing said cable to slide within said sleeve. 9. An actuating device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: (a) a housing associated with the tool device; (b) a reciprocating disk residing in said housing; (c) a spur gear residing adjacent said reciprocating disk in said housing; (d) a pin extending from said reciprocating disk and having a longitudinal axis; (e) an axial shaft extending through said reciprocating disk and said spur gear; said longitudinal axis being parallel said axial shaft and spaced apart therefrom; and (f) a one way clutch associated with said reciprocating disk, said one way clutch causing torque to be applied to said spur gear through said axial shaft in only one direction of rotation, said cable extending into said housing with said piston located adjacent said pin, said cable driving said piston against said pin and perpendicular to said longitudinal axis when the vertical linear actuator is raised above the predetermined height thereby causing said cable to slide within said sleeve. 10. An actuating device as recited in claim 9 further comprising: a pinion gear intermeshing with said spur gear, said pinion gear including a pad for engaging parts to be acquired by the tool device. 11. An actuating device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: (a) a housing associated with the tool device; and (b) a rotatable subassembly in said housing, said piston driving rotation of said rotatable subassembly when the vertical linear actuator is raised above the predetermined height thereby causing said cable to slide within said sleeve. 12. A controllably rotatable gripping mechanism for a parallel jaw-type gripping tool for use with a robotic arm, said gripping mechanism comprising: (a) at least one housing associated with the parallel jaw type gripping tool; (b) a reciprocating disk residing in said housing; (c) a spur gear residing adjacent said reciprocating disk; (d) a pin extending from said reciprocating disk and having a longitudinal axis; (e) an axial shaft extending through said reciprocating disk and said spur gear; said longitudinal axis being parallel said axial shaft and spaced apart therefrom; (f) a cable slidably residing in a cable sleeve and having one end thereof extending into said housing, said one end of said cable having a piston affixed thereto; and (g) a one way clutch associated with said reciprocating disk, said one way clutch causing torque to be applied to said spur gear through said axial shaft in only one direction of rotation, movement of said cable driving said piston against said pin to cause said reciprocating disk to rotate thereby causing said spur gear to rotate. 13. A controllably rotatable gripping mechanism as recited in claim 12 further comprising: means for biasing said cable to a home position relative to said cable sleeve. 14. A controllably rotatable gripping mechanism as recited in claim 13 further comprising: (a) a pinion gear supported by said housing and intermeshing with said spur gear; (b) a gripping pad affixed to said pinion gear, said pinion gear being controllably rotated by causing said cable to slide within said sleeve such that said piston drives said pin in an arcuate path. 15. An actuating device for use with a robotic arm having a linear actuator which includes an actuated portion and a stationary portion with a tool device supported by the actuated portion, said actuating device comprising: (a) a bracket attached to the stationary portion of the linear actuator, said bracket presenting an engaging surface; and (b) a mechanical assembly for controlling rotation of parts acquired by the tool device, said mechanical assembly attached to the actuated portion of the linear actuator, said mechanical assembly including a displacement linkage member and a rotatable subassembly, said displacement linkage member contacting said engaging surface when said mechanical assembly is raised to a predetermined height through operation of the linear actuator and causing said displacement linkage member to drive rotation of said rotatable subassembly when said mechanical assembly is raised above said predetermined height, said displacement linkage member not contacting said engaging surface when said mechanical subassembly resides below said predetermined height. 16. An actuating device as recited in claim 15 further comprising: means for biasing said displacement linkage member to a home position. 17. An actuating device as recited in claim 15 wherein: said displacement linkage member comprises (a) a predetermined length of cable slidably residing in a sleeve, said predetermined length of cable having a proximal end extending beyond a first end of said sleeve and a distal extending beyond a second end of said sleeve; (b) a button affixed to said proximal end; and (c) a bracket for supporting said first end of said sleeve from said vertical linear actuator such that said button is raised or lowered when an actuated portion of the vertical linear actuator is raised or lowered. 18. An actuating device as recited in claim 15 wherein: said displacement linkage member comprises a rack; a pinion engaging said rack, an end of said rack contacting said engaging surface when said mechanical assembly is raised to said predetermined height through operation of the linear actuator and causing displacement of said rack thereby driving rotation of said pinion which drives rotation of a spur gear in said rotatable subassembly. 19. An actuating device as recited in claim 18 further comprising: means for biasing said rack to a home position. 20. An actuating device as recited in claim 15 wherein: said displacement linkage member comprises a lever attached to said rotatable subassembly; a spring biasing said lever to a home position, said lever including a free end, said free end contacting said engaging surface when said mechanical assembly is raised to a predetermined height through operation of the linear actuator, said lever being actuated when said mechanical assembly is raised above said predetermined height thereby driving rotation of said mechanical assembly. 