Disclosed is a path planning apparatus and method for robots. The apparatus includes a planner which receives target positioning information, performs calculations using this information to obtain an initial speed profile, then outputs the initial speed profile; a low pass filter functioning as an interpolator which receives the initial speed profile from the planner, performs a predetermined operation on the same to obtain a filtered speed profile that is smoother than the initial speed profile, and outputs the filtered speed profile; a servo controller which receives output of the low pass filter and outputs acceleration and deceleration control signals according to the output of the low pass filter, and a servo motor which is controlled by the signals received from the servo controller. The method includes the steps of calculating an initial speed profile calculated after receiving input of signals corresponding to a predetermined target position, obtaining a filtered speed profile by interpolating the initial speed profile using a single low pass filter; and controlling acceleration and deceleration of a servo motor using the filtered speed profile.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A path planning apparatus comprising: a planner which receives target positioning information, performs calculations using this information to obtain an initial speed profile, then outputs the initial speed profile; an interpolator which receives the initial speed profile from the planner, performs a predetermined operation on the same to obtain a filtered speed profile that is smotther than the initial speed profile, and outputs the filtered speed profile; a servo controller which receives output of the interpolator and outputs acceleration and deceleration control signals according to the output of the low pass filter; a servo motor which is controlled by the signals received from the servo controller a plurality of unit delays connected in series and operating to output delay signals; a plurality of first multipliers for multiplying predetermined gain values to each of the delay signals output from the unit delays, said predetermined gain values being functions of time; an adder for obtaining a sum of the output of the first multipliers and outputting the same; and a second multiplier which multiplies the output of the adder to an inverse of the sum of all the gain values to obtain the filtered speed profile. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the unit delays are shift registers. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the gain values are a first order function related to time. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the first order function is expressed by the following equation: ##EQU5## where t is time, k(t) are the gain values, F is a size of an acceleration interval of the servo motor, and a is a random number >0. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the gain values are a second order function related to time. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the second order function is expressed by the following equation: where t is time, k(t) are the gain values, F is a size of an acceleration interval of the servo motor, and a is a random number >0. 7. A path planning method for robots comprising the steps of: calculating an initial speed profile calculated after receiving input of signals corresponding to a predetermined target position; obtaining a filtered speed profile by interpolating the initial speed profile using a single low pass filter; outputting a plurality of delay signals having sequential delay values by successively delaying the input signals; multiplying predetermined gain values to each of the delay signals and outputting the resulting values; obtaining a sum of the values resulting from multiplying the gain values to the delay signals, and outputting a resulting sum value; and multiplying the sum value to an inverse of a sum of all the gain values. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein calculation of the sum of all the gain values and establishment of the same as an initial value is performed before operation of the low pass filter. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the gain values are adjusted to control acceleration and deceleration of the servo motor. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the gain values are a first order function related to time. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first order function is expressed by the following equation: ##EQU6## where t is time, k(t) are the gain values, F is a size of an acceleration interval of the servo motor, and a is a random number >0. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the gain values are a second order function related to time. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the second order function is expressed by the following equation: where t is time, k(t) are the gain values, F is a size of an acceleration interval of the servo motor, and a is a random number .gtoreq.0. 