A tilting elevator is set forth. A rigid frame has a base, a structurally rigid structure extending upwardly from the base, and a flange attached to the structure top. The flange is generally parallel to the base. A movable elevatable structure is telescopically mounted to the rigid frame. The elevatable structure comprises upper and lower spaced apart generally parallel plates. At least three generally parallel rods extend between the plates and are connected to them by universal joints. A motor system is supported rigidly relative to the base. Each of the rods is movable relative to the plates independently of each other rod. A robotic arm having R-, .theta.- and Z-motion can be mounted to the elevator. A mechanism is preferably attached to the bottom plate of the elevatable structure for increasing the stability of the system. With the addition of a sensor and using microprocessor control, canted workpieces can be readily picked up.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A universally tiltingly adjustable elevator structure for positioning an apparatus for picking up an article, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a rigid structure having a structure upper end portion; and a flange attached to the structure upper end portion; and a movable and tiltable elevatable structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: a plate; at least three non-coplanar linearly extending generally parallel members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members connected to the plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plate; a plurality of universal joints supported by the plate, the number of universal joints being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the universal joints being arranged to universally mount a portion of a respective one of the linearly extending members to the plate; and motor means for motivating each of said linearly extending members independently of each other of said linearly extending members selectively upwardly and downwardly with respect to the rigid frame. 2. An elevator structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein the motor means comprises: a plurality of individual motors supported by the rigid frame, the number of motors being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to motivate a corresponding one of the linearly extending members selectively upwardly and downwardly. 3. An elevator structure as set forth in claim 2, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members comprises: a plurality of lead screws supported on the rigid frame and being rotatable relative thereto, the number of lead screws being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each lead screw being located adjacent and parallel to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws; and a plurality of brackets, the number of brackets being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each bracket being attached to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the brackets having an arm extending from the respective linearly extending member to a distal portion thereof, each distal portion having a bore therethrough which includes a thread follower which engages with the corresponding lead screw in such a manner that rotation of the lead screw imparts linear motion upwardly and downwardly to the corresponding linearly extending member. 4. An elevator structure as set forth in claim 3, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members further comprises: a plurality of belt means, the number of belt means being equal to the number of motors, each belt means being driven by a corresponding one of the motors and being engaged to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws. 5. The elevator structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein the number of universal joints is limited to three and the number of linearly extending members is limited to three. 6. The elevator structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein each universal joint operates to universally mount only one linearly extending member to the plate. 7. A combined elevation and article positioning apparatus, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a rigid structure having a structure upper end portion; and a flange having a generally centrally positioned opening therethrough, the flange being attached to the structure upper end portion; and a movable elevatable structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: a plate; at least three linearly extending generally parallel members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members connected to the plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plate; a plurality of universal joints supported by the plate, the number of upper universal joints being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the universal joints being arranged to universally mount an end portion of a respective one of the linearly extending members to the plate; motor means for motivating each of the linearly extending members independently of each other of said linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly with respect to the rigid frame; and an article positioning apparatus supported by the elevatable structure, the article positioning apparatus extending upwardly through the generally central opening in the flange. 8. An apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein the elevatable structure further includes: a second plate of the movable elevatable structure; and rigidity increasing means attached to the second plate of the movable elevatable structure for increasing the rigidity of a bottom portion of the movable elevatable structure. 9. An apparatus as set forth in claim 8, wherein the rigidity increasing means comprises: biasing means for biasing the bottom portion of the movable elevatable structure. 10. An apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein the motor means comprises: a plurality of individual motors supported by the rigid frame, the number of motors being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to motivate a corresponding one of the linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly. 11. An apparatus as set forth in claim 10, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members comprises: a plurality of lead screws supported in the rigid frame and being universally rotatable relative thereto, the number of lead screws being equal to the number of linearly extending members each lead screw being located adjacent and parallel to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws; and a plurality of brackets, the number of brackets being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each bracket being attached to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the brackets having an arm extending from the respective linearly extending member to a distal portion thereof, each distal portion having a bore therethrough which includes a thread follower which engages with the corresponding lead screw in such a manner that rotation of the lead screw imparts linear motion to the corresponding linearly extending member. 12. An apparatus as set forth in claim 11, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members further comprises: a plurality of belt means, the number of belt means being equal to the number of motors, each belt means being driven by a corresponding one of the motors and being engaged to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws. 13. An apparatus as set forth in claim 10, wherein the connection of each of the motors to motivate the corresponding one of the linearly extending members comprises: a plurality of lead screws supported by the rigid frame and being universally rotatable relative thereto, the number of lead screws being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each lead screw being located adjacent and parallel to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the motors being connected to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws; a plurality of brackets, the number of brackets being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each bracket being attached to a respective one of the linearly extending members, each of the brackets having an arm extending from the respective linearly extending member to a distal portion thereof, each distal portion having a bore therethrough which engages with the corresponding lead screw in such a manner that rotation of the lead screw imparts linear motion to the corresponding linearly extending member; and a plurality of belt means, the number of belt means being equal to the number of motors, each belt means being driven by a corresponding one of the motors and being engaged to rotate a corresponding one of the lead screws. 14. The elevator structure as set forth in claim 7, wherein the number of linearly extending members does not exceed the number of universal joints. 15. The elevator structure as set forth in claim 14, wherein the number of linearly extending members is three. 16. A combined elevation and article positioning apparatus, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a rigid structure having a structure upper end portion; and a flange having a generally centrally positioned opening therethrough, the flange being attached to the structure upper end portion; and a movable elevatable structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: a plate: at least three linearly extending generally parallel members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members connected to the plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plate; a plurality of universal joints supported by the plate, the number of universal joints being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the universal joints being arranged to universally mount an end portion of a respective one of the linearly extending members to the plate; motor means for motivating each of the linearly extending members independently of each other of said linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly with respect to the rigid frame; an article positioning apparatus supported by the elevatable structure, the article positioning apparatus extending upwardly through the generally central opening in the flange; a second plate of the movable elevatable structure; and rigidity increasing means attached to the second plate of the movable elevatable structure for increasing the rigidity of a bottom portion of the movable elevatable structure, the rigidity increasing means comprising biasing means for biasing the bottom portion of the movable elevatable structure, the biasing means comprising: a bias transmitting structure located below and spaced apart from the second plate; attachment means having a lower portion attached to and extending upwardly from the bias transmitting structure and through the second plate in non-contacting relation thereto, the attachment means having an upper portion attached to the bottom portion of the movable elevatable structure; and force exerting means for exerting a force upwardly from the second plate against the bottom portion of the movable elevatable structure. 17. An apparatus as set forth in claim 16, wherein the force exerting means comprise a pneumatic cylinder. 18. A method for picking up an ostensibly horizontally lying generally planar workpiece which is misaligned from the horizontal and which is one of a plurality of stacked spaced apart workpieces, the method comprising: providing a combined elevation and article positioning apparatus, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a rigid structure having a structure upper end portion; and a flange having a generally centrally positioned opening therethrough, the flange being attached to the structure upper end portion; and a movable elevatable structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: a plate; at least three linearly extending generally parallel spaced apart non-coplanar members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members pivotally connected to the plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plates; a plurality of universal joints supported by the plate, the number of universal joints being equal to the number of linearly extending members, each of the universal joints being arranged to universally mount a portion of a respective one of the linearly extending members to the plate; and motor means supported rigidly relative to the rigid frame for motivating each of said linearly extending members independently of each other of said linearly extending members upwardly and downwardly; and an article positioning apparatus supported by the elevatable structure, the article positioning apparatus extending upwardly through the generally central opening in the flange to above the plate, the article positioning apparatus; having an end effector including a sensor for determining the alignment of each of the workpieces, the article positioning apparatus including computer control means for controlling the operation of the article positioning apparatus and of the motor means, the sensor communicating with the computer control means; moving the end effector to the vicinity of the workpieces; utilizing the sensor to measure the alignment of each workpiece prior to picking it up; when any of the workpieces are misaligned communicating the degree of misalignment to the computer control means; and utilizing the computer control means to control the motor means and the article positioning apparatus to align the end effector to pick up the misaligned workpiece. 19. The elevator structure as set forth in claim 18, wherein the number of linearly extending members does not exceed the number of universal joints. 20. The elevator structure as set forth in claim 19, wherein the number of linearly extending members is three. 