A robotic system for processing a plurality of products, the system including a plurality of units arranged to sequentially receive the products and each having a work station for effecting a specific operation on the products; and a robotic device associated with each unit and operable to sequentially obtain the products from a preceding unit, to transport the products to the work station of its associated unit and to transport the products from the associated work station to a position accessible to a robotic device of a succeeding unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing products and comprising the steps of: providing a processing system comprising a plurality of units each having a work station for simultaneously effecting a specific operation on a plurality of the products; equipping each said unit with an associated robotic device; interconnecting said units in a predetermined serial arrangement including an initial unit, a plurality of intermediate units and a discharge unit; causing said robotic device associated with said initial unit to transport a product from its associated work station to a position accessible to a said robotic device associated with a subsequent said intermediate unit; causing said robotic device associated with each said intermediate unit to receive said products from a preceding said unit, to transport said products to said work station associated with its said unit and to transport said products from said associated work station to a position accessible to said robotic device of a subsequent unit; causing said robotic device associated with said discharge unit to receive said products from a preceding said intermediate unit, to transport said products to said work station associated with its said discharge unit and to transport said products to a discharge area; and effecting on the products in each said work station said operation associated therewith. 2. A method for processing products according to claim 1 wherein said interconnecting step comprises interconnecting at least a given number of said units in a rectilinear array. 3. A method of processing products according to claim 1 wherein said interconnecting step comprises the steps of interconnecting some of said units into a first rectilinear array and interconnecting other said units in a second array disposed transverse to said first array. 4. A method of processing products according to claim 1 wherein said units are interchangeable units. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 6. A method for processing products according to claim 1 wherein the system is a chemical screening system and the products are chemical assays. 7. A method for processing products according to claim 6 including the steps of loading said chemical assays into individual receptacles prior to said causing steps, and wherein said operations comprise incubation, receptacle washing and reagent addition operations. 8. A method for processing products according to claim 1 including the step of changing in at least one of said intermediate units the orientation of said products received in said position. 9. A robotic chemical screening system for processing chemical assays and comprising: a plurality of units arranged to sequentially receive the assays and each comprising work station for effecting a specific operation on the assays, and a robotic device associated with each said unit and operable to sequentially obtain each said assay from a preceding said unit, to transport each said assay to said work station of its associated unit and to transport each said assay from said associated work station to a position accessible to a said robotic device of a succeeding said unit. 10. A robotic system according to claim 9 wherein said units are modular, interchangeable units. 11. A robotic system according to claim 10 wherein said position is disposed in a uniform geometrically located portion of each unit. 12. A robotic system according to claim 11 wherein said position is disposed on said associated unit. 13. A robotic system according to claim 11 wherein said position is disposed on said succeeding unit. 14. A robotic system according to claim 11 wherein at least a given number of said units are interconnected in a rectilinear array that accommodates movement of the products in a rectilinear path. 15. A robotic system according to claim 14 wherein each said unit comprises electrical connector means automatically coupled to said connector means of adjacent units in response to interconnection thereof. 16. A robotic system according to claim 15 wherein said connector means of each unit comprise a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with, respectively, said connectors of adjacent said units. 17. A robotic processing system for processing a plurality of products, said system comprising: a plurality of modular, interchangeable units arranged to sequentially receive the products and each comprising a work station for simultaneously effecting a specific operation on a plurality of the products; at least a given number of said units being interconnected in a rectilinear array that accommodates movement of the products in a rectilinear path and, each unit having a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with, respectively, said connectors of adjacent said units; and a robotic device associated with each said unit and operable to sequentially obtain each said product from a preceding said unit, to transport each said product to said work station of its associated unit and to transport each said product from said associated work station to a position accessible to a said robotic device of a succeeding said unit, said position being disposed in a uniform geometrically located portion of each unit. 18. A robotic system according to claim 17 wherein said connectors are disposed in uniform locations of each unit. 19. A robotic system according to claim 18 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 20. A robotic system according to claim 19 wherein said units include a corner unit connected to one end of said rectilinear array and shaped and arranged to provide movement of the products in a direction transverse to said rectilinear path. 21. A robotic processing system for processing a plurality of products, said system comprising: a plurality of units arranged to sequentially receive the products and each comprising a work station for simultaneously effecting a specific operation on a plurality of the products, each unit having a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with, respectively, said connectors of adjacent said units; and a robotic device associated with each said unit and operable to sequentially obtain each said product from a preceding said unit, to transport each said product to said work station of its associated unit and to transport each said product from said associated work station to a position accessible to a said robotic device of a succeeding said unit. 22. A robotic system according to claim 21 wherein said connectors are disposed in uniform locations of each unit. 23. A robotic processing system for processing a plurality of products, said system comprising: a plurality of units arranged to sequentially receive the products and each comprising a work station for simultaneously effecting a specific operation on a plurality of the products, at least a given number of said units are interconnected in a rectilinear array that accommodates movement of the products in a rectilinear path, and said units include a corner unit connected to one end of said rectilinear array and shaped and arranged to provide movement of the products in a direction transverse to said rectilinear path; and a robotic device associated with each said unit and operable to sequentially obtain each said product from a preceding said unit, to transport each said product to said work station of its associated unit and to transport each said product from said associated work station to a position accessible to a said robotic device of a succeeding said unit. 