A sample handling system in a multi-channel capillary electrophoresis apparatus is disclosed. The sample handling system includes a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates and a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells. At least one of the loading wells includes a capillary fixedly positioned therein. The system further includes a programmable sample transfer device for automatically transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well. The invention further includes methods for using the sample handling system.
Claims We claim: 1. A sample handling system in a multi-channel capillary electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates, wherein the temperature of the work surface is controlled by a temperature controller; a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells; wherein at least one of the loading wells includes a capillary fixedly positioned therein; and a programmable sample transfer device for transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work surface comprises one or more tray recesses for accommodating one or more replaceable sample trays. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the one or more tray recesses comprise a tray locking mechanism. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work surface comprises one or more standard wells. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the sample transfer device comprises a multi-axis robot having an arm. 6. A sample handling system in a multi-channel capillary electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates; a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells; wherein at least one of the loading wells includes a capillary fixedly positioned therein; and a programmable sample transfer device for transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well, wherein the sample transfer device includes a pipette head comprising a tip straightener. 7. A sample handling system in a multi-channel capillary electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates; a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells, wherein the plurality of loading wells are located in a loading bar which serves as an electrode; wherein at least one of the loading wells includes a capillary fixedly positioned therein; and a programmable sample transfer device for transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well. 8. A sample handling system in a multi-channel capillary electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates; a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells, wherein the loading wells are in fluid communication with fluid passages for conducting fluids into and out of the loading wells; wherein at least one of the loading wells includes a capillary fixedly positioned therein; and a programmable sample transfer device for transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fluid passages are in fluid communication with a main manifold for supplying fluids and/or vacuum to the loading wells through the fluid passages. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the fluid passages have in internal diameter from about 0.005 inches to about 0.05 inches. 