The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for depositing an insulating layer on a substrate having at least one gap, said substrate being disposed on a heater in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: raising said heater to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; pressurizing said chamber to a pressure of between about 10 to about 760 torr; and introducing oxygen and silicon which comprise TEOS and O.sub.3 into said chamber to deposit an oxide film on said substrate on said heater at said temperature filling said at least one gap. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said temperature is at least about 600.degree. C. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said temperature is at least about 650.degree. C. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said temperature is at least about 750.degree. C. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein said substrate has at least one gap having an aspect ratio of at least about 2.5:1. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein said at least one gap is a trench used for isolation. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein said at least one gap has a depth of less than about 0.35 .mu.m. 8. The process of claim 6 wherein said oxide deposited in said gap is a filling oxide. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein said oxide is a film having no voids after a heating step at about 1000.degree. C. 10. The process of claim 6 wherein said gap has an aspect ratio of at least about 3:1 and said oxide film has no voids. 11. The process of claim 6 further comprising the step of: introducing oxygen, silicon, and dopants into said chamber to deposit a doped oxide film on said at least one gap prior to depositing said oxide. 12. The process of claim 11 further comprising the step of: removing said doped oxide film from said at least one gap after dopants from said doped oxide film are driven into said substrate and prior to depositing said oxide, said dopants driven into said substrate providing a channel stop diffusion in said substrate at the surface of said at least one gap. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein said dopants are comprised of boron for PMOS transistor isolation. 14. The process of claim 12 wherein said dopants are comprised of phosphorus for NMOS transistor isolation. 15. The process of claim 13 wherein said boron is from TEB. 16. The process of claim 14 wherein said phosphorus is from TEPO. 