An end effector has a base on one end for mounting to an end of a robot. A mount plate is fastened to the base. The end effector also has a cylindrical body to which is mounted a mating plate. Each of these components have axial holes which align with one another. The mount plate has a pair of precision-ground bumps which mate with a pair of dimples in the mating plate. One matched bump and dimple pair is smaller in diameter than the other pair to facilitate alignment between the base and the body. The end effector also has a retaining extension spring which extends between the base and the body in tension. During routine operation, the robot moves the end effector and a tool fixture at its distal end to assemble components such as in a pick-and-place tasks. In the event that the end effector crashes into an object, the body will rotate away from the base and the bumps slide out of the dimples. The spring keeps the parts together as the base remains rigidly mounted to the robot arm and the body deflect away. After the collision, the end effector is reset by reseating the bumps in the dimples.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for a robotic arm, comprising: a base adapted to be mounted to a robotic arm, the base having a contact face and a central axial hole; a body having a central axial hole which registers with the hole in the base, a first end which is adapted to receive a tool fixture, and a second end which has a contact face that mates with the contact face of the base while the body is in an operational position; a pair of hard-ground, hemispherical protuberances differing in size and protruding axially from one of the contact faces; a pair of hard-ground, cylindrical receptacles differing in size and located in the other of the contact faces, each of the receptacles closely receiving a maximum diameter of a respective one of the protuberances to orient the body on the base; and a spring extending within the holes of the base and the body, the spring being mounted in tension between the base and the body for retaining the body on the base and allowing the body to deflect away from the base in the event that the body strikes an object. 2. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising a hardened plate fastened to the contact face of each of the base and the body wherein the protuberances are integrally formed on one of the plates and the receptacles are integrally formed in the other of the plates. 3. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the body may be repeatably reattached to the base within 0.0002 inches due to tolerances between the protuberances and the receptacles. 4. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the protuberances and the receptacles are located substantially 180 degrees apart from each other. 5. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the the axis of the body deflects up to approximately 90 degrees relative to the axis of the base in any radial direction. 6. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising a pin mounted in the body perpendicular to the axis of the body; and a pin mounted in the base; and wherein the spring is secured between the pins. 7. An end effector for a robotic arm, comprising: a base adapted to be mounted to a robotic arm, the base having a contact face and a central axial hole; a body having a central axial hole which registers with the hole in the base, a first end which is adapted to receive a tool fixture, and a second end which has a contact face that mates with the contact face of the base while the body is in an operational position; a pair of hard-ground, hemispherical protuberances differing in size and protruding axially from one of the contact faces; a pair of hard-ground, cylindrical receptacles in the other of the contact faces, each of the receptacles closely receiving a maximum diameter of a respective one of the protuberances, the receptacles and their respective protuberances having different dimensions for maintaining a desired orientation between the body and the base such that the body may be repeatably reattached to the base within 0.0002 inches due to tolerances between the protuberances and the receptacles; and a spring extending within the holes of the base and the body, the spring being mounted in tension between the base and the body for retaining the body on the base and allowing the body to deflect away from the base up to approximately 90 degrees relative to the axis of the base in any radial direction in the event that the body strikes an object. 8. The end effector of claim 7 wherein the protuberances and respective ones of the receptacles are located substantially 180 degrees apart from each other. 9. The end effector of claim 7, further comprising a hardened plate fastened to the contact face of each of the base and the body, wherein the protuberances are integrally formed on one of the plates and the receptacles are integrally formed in the other of the plates. 10. The end effector of claim 7, further comprising a pin mounted in the body perpendicular to the axis of the body; and a pin mounted in the base; and wherein the spring is secured between the pins. 11. An end effector for a robotic arm, comprising: a base adapted to be mounted to a robotic arm and having a central axial hole; a hardened mounting plate fastened to the base, the mounting plate having a contact face and an axial hole that registers with the hole in the base; a body having a central axial hole that registers with the hole in the base, a tool end adapted to receive a tool fixture, and a mounting end; a hardened mating plate fastened to the mounting end of the body, the mating plate having a contact face that mates with the contact face of the mounting plate while the body is in an operational position; a pair of hard-ground hemispheres differing in size and formed on one of the contact faces; a pair of hard-ground, cylindrical bores differing in size and formed in the other of the contact faces, each of the bores closely receiving a maximum diameter of a respective one of the hemispheres, the bores and their respective hemispheres having different dimensions for maintaining a desired orientation between the body and the base such that the body may be repeatably reattached to the base within 0.0002 inches due to tolerances between the hemispheres and the bores; and a spring extending within the holes of the base and the body, the spring being mounted in tension between the base and the body for retaining the body on the base and allowing the body to deflect away from the base up to approximately 90 degrees relative to the axis of the base in any radial direction in the event that the body strikes an object. 12. The end effector of claim 11 wherein the hemispheres and respective ones of the bores are located substantially 180 degrees apart from each other. 13. The end effector of claim 11, further comprising: a pin mounted in the body perpendicular to the axis of the body; a pin mounted in the base; and wherein the spring is secured between the pins. 