A pill dispensing system includes a shelving unit in array form that holds a number of bulk containers, each holding a bulk amount of a pill to be dispensed. A computer controlled robot removes a selected bulk container and places it on a counter that also dispenses pills. The robot has an arm with a free end portion that can grip a bulk container or a single pill bottle to be filled. The robot is computer controlled to retrieve an empty pill bottle, place it on a label printing and applying unit, then place it next to the counter/dispenser to receive the selected number of selected prescription pills, then place the filled, labeled bottle on a conveyor.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for filling prescriptions comprising: a) a shelving unit defining an array of storage containers, each container having an interior for holding a bulk amount of pills; b) each container being removable from the shelving unit; c) a computer controlled robotic arm for reaching each container; d) the arm having a free end that grips the container upon selection; e) a dispensing unit that receives the selected container, the dispensing unit dispensing a number of pills therefrom into a pill bottle; and f) the free end of the robotic arm having first and second gripping surface portions that are movable relative to one another and that are configured to selectively grip a selected container or a selected bottle respectively so that the robotic arm can maneuver a selected container or a selected bottle to the dispensing unit, said gripping surface portion including a first surface section that is contoured to fit a pill bottle and a second section spaced from the first section and shaped to grip a container. 2. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the shelving unit is arc shaped. 3. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the containers are arranged on an array that is accessed by the robotic arm when the robotic arm rotates about a center of rotation. 4. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the robotic arm can move the free end into multiple different elevational and radial positions. 5. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 2 wherein the robotic arm rotates about a center of rotation and the shelving unit has a curved front face that tracks an arc that has the same center as the said center of rotation. 6. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the shelving unit comprises a plurality of vertical columns, each having a plurality of shelves for holding containers. 7. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 6 wherein each column has a front face that is perpendicular to a radial line that extends radially from the center of rotation. 8. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the free end has a gripping surface portion that includes a pair of opposed surfaces that are moveable between gripping and releasing position. 9. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 8 wherein the free end has a gripping surface portion that includes a pair of opposed curved surfaces for gripping the pill bottle. 10. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the free end has a gripping surface portion that includes a pair of opposed curved surfaces for gripping the pill bottle and a pair of opposed generally linear surfaces for gripping a container. 11. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the shelving unit includes a plurality of inclined surfaces upon which the containers are supported. 12. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the dispensing unit is spaced circumferentially away from the shelving unit. 13. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 12 wherein the robotic arm rotates away from the shelving unit to the dispensing unit and wherein the robotic arm moves the free end portion along a path that enables a change of elevation and radius for the free end portion and a supported container. 14. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 further comprising a bottle dispenser for holding a plurality of empty pill bottles to be filled with prescriptions. 15. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein movement of the robotic arm enables its free end portion to move from a bottle grasping position at the bottle dispenser to a bottle filling position next to the dispensing unit with a gripped bottle. 16. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 15 further comprising a conveyor for receiving pill bottles that have been filled with a prescription. 17. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 16 wherein movement of the robotic arm enables its free end portion to move a pill bottle from a position next to the dispensing unit to the conveyor. 18. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the free end includes a pair of opposed gripping surfaces that move between open and closed positions. 19. The apparatus for filling prescriptions of claim 1 wherein the free end includes a pair of opposed jaws that move with respect to each other, wherein the jaws move toward each other to define a closed, gripping position. 20. A method of filling a prescription comprising the steps of: a) storing a plurality of containers on a shelving unit that includes a plurality of receptacles for holding the respective containers, each container holding a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed; b) using a robotic computer controlled arm to grasp a selected of the containers having pills that are the correct pills for the prescription to be filled; c) removing the selected container from its receptacle with the robotic arm; d) placing the container on a counter; e) dispensing the correct number of pills from the container with the counter and into a pill bottle; f) using the robotic arm to return the container to its receptacle; and g) using the robotic arm to remove the pill bottle from the counter, wherein the robotic arm has separate gripping surfaces that grip the container and the pill bottle respectively. 21. The method of filling a prescription in claim 20 further comprising the step of using a computer to control the robotic arm during movement of the pill bottle. 22. The method of filling a prescription in claim 21 wherein the pill bottle is moved by the robot from a pill bottle dispenser to a label printer and applier and then to the counter. 23. The method of filling a prescription in claim 22 further comprising the step of moving the pill bottle to a conveyor after it has been filled. 24. The method of filling a prescription in claim 20 wherein in step "a" the receptacles are positioned in an array having a curved front and in step "c" the robotic arm rotates to access the receptacles. 25. The method of filling a prescription in claim 20 wherein in step "e", the counter is controlled with a computer. 26. An apparatus for filling prescriptions comprising: a) a shelving unit for holding multiple containers, each container having an interior for holding a bulk amount of pills; b) each container being removable from the shelving unit; c) a computer controlled robotic arm for reaching each container; d) the arm having a free end that can grip a selected container upon selection; e) a counter that receives the selected container, the counter enabling a counting and dispensing of pills from a container into a bottle; f) the free end having a pair of opposed jaws movable relative to one another with first and second shaped gripping surface portions thereon having first and second sections with different shapes for selectively gripping a selected container with the first shaped section or a selected pill bottle with the second shaped section respectively. 27. A method of filling a prescription comprising the steps of: a) storing a plurality of containers on a shelving unit that includes a plurality of receptacles for holding the respective containers, each container holding a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed; b) using a robotic, computer controlled arm having jaws with gripping surfaces to grasp a selected one of the containers having pills corresponding to the prescription to be filled; c) removing the selected container from its receptacle with the robotic arm; d) placing the container on a counter; e) dispensing the correct number of pills from the container with the counter and into a pill bottle; f) using the robotic arm to return the container to its receptacle; and g) using the robotic arm to remove the pill bottle from the counter, wherein a differently shaped section of the gripping surfaces grips the container and the pill bottle, respectively. 28. The method of filling a prescription in claim 27 further comprising the step of using a computer to control the robotic arm during movement of the pill bottle, wherein the robotic arm grips the pill bottle in step "e". 29. The method of filling a prescription in claim 27 wherein after step "d" the pill bottle is moved from a pill bottle dispenser to a label printer and applier and then to the counter and further comprising the steps of generating a label at the label printer and applier with selected information thereon and affixing the label to the bottle. 30. The method of filling a prescription in claim 29 further comprising the step of moving the pill bottle with the robotic arm to a conveyor after it has been filled. 31. The method of filling a prescription in claim 27 wherein in step "a" the receptacles are positioned in an array having a curved front and in step "c" the robotic arm rotates to access the receptacles. 32. The method of filling a prescription in claim 27 wherein in step "e", the counter is controlled with a computer. 33. A method of filling a prescription comprising the steps of: a) storing a plurality of containers on a shelving unit that includes a plurality of receptacles for holding the respective containers, each container holding a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed; b) using a robotic, computer controlled arm having movable jaws to grasp a selected of the containers having pills corresponding to the prescription to be filled said jaws including first and second sections with different shapes; c) removing the selected container from its receptacle with the robotic arm of step "b", gripping said container with said first jaw section; d) placing the container on a pill counter using the robotic arm; e) gripping a pill vial with the robotic arm, gripping said pill vial with second jaw section; f) maneuvering the robotic arm to transport the gripped pill vial to a label printer; g) applying a printed label with the label printer to the pill vial; h) maneuvering the robotic arm to transport the gripped pill vial to the counter; i) dispensing the correct number of pills from the container with the counter and into a pill bottle; and j) using the robotic arm to return the container to its receptacle. 34. A method of filling a prescription comprising the steps of: a) storing a plurality of containers on a shelving unit that includes a plurality of receptacles for holding the respective containers, each container holding a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed; b) using a robotic, computer controlled arm having jaws to grasp a selected of the containers having pills corresponding to the prescription to be filled; c) removing the selected container from its receptacle with the robotic arm of step "b"; d) placing the container on a pill counter using the robotic arm; e) gripping a pill vial with the robotic arm; f) maneuvering the robotic arm to transport the gripped pill vial to a label printer; g) separating the robotic arm from the pill vial; h) applying a printed label with the label printer to the pill vial; i) gripping the pill vial with the robotic arm; j) maneuvering the robotic arm to transport the gripped pill vial to the counter; k) dispensing the correct number of pills from the container with the counter and into a pill bottle; l) using the robotic arm to return the container to its receptacle; and m) wherein in steps "c" and "e", differently shaped sections of the jaws respectively grasp the container or the pill vial. 35. A method of filling a prescription comprising the steps of: a) storing a plurality of containers on a shelving unit that includes a plurality of receptacles for holding the respective containers, each container holding a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed; b) using a robotic, computer controlled arm to grasp a selected of the containers having pills corresponding to the prescription to be filled; c) removing the selected container from its receptacle with the robotic arm; d) placing the container on a counter; e) dispensing the correct number of pills from the container with the counter and into a pill vial; f) using the robotic arm to transport the pill vial to a label printer; g) transporting the pill vial to a drop off location; h) using the robotic arm to return the container to its receptacle; and i) wherein in steps "b" and "f", differently shaped sections of the jaws respectively grasp the container or the pill vial. 