An automated means for hydrating and packaging a molded hydrophilic contact lens in one of the mold parts used to mold the lens is provided in which a first robotic assembly removes a plurality of contact lens molds from a production line carrier, each of the lens molds having a contact lens adhered therein. The first robotic assembly transports the molds to a first staging area where the lens molds are sandwiched between a lens mold carrier and a top chamber plate to form a first hydration carrier. The hydration carrier is then transported through a plurality of flushing or extraction stations wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into the hydration chambers at each hydration station to flush leachable substances from the hydration chamber. At each flushing station, fresh deionized water is introduced into the hydration chamber to remove previously extracted impurities and the products of hydrolysis. A final robotic dis-assembly device separates the top chamber plate and lens molds in the mold carrier plate, to provide fully hydrated lenses in a concave lens mold ready for transfer to inspection and packaging stations. Following inspection of the lens, the concave lens mold is dosed with saline and used to form part of the package used to distribute the lens.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated apparatus for hydrating a molded hydrophilic contact lens, in one of the mold parts used to mold the lens said automated apparatus comprising: (a) a first robotic assembly for removing a plurality of contact lens molds from a preliminary carrier, each mold having a contact lens therein, and assembling said molds with a mold carrier and a plurality of lens hydration means to form a hydration carrier; (b) a plurality of hydration stations for supplying a hydration fluid to the lens hydration means to hydrate the lenses and release said lenses from said molds; (c) a transport for transporting said hydration carrier through said hydration stations; (d) a second robotic assembly for removing said molds from said mold carrier and transporting said molds and said lenses to a subsequent processing station. 2. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first robotic assembly is a pick and place robot that picks a plurality of said contact lens molds carried by one or more preliminary carriers and places them in said mold carrier. 3. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lens hydration means includes a plurality of hydration assemblies for engaging said contact lens molds, and forming a hydration chamber between each such mold and assembly. 4. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein said lens hydration means further includes a plurality of magnets for engaging a plurality of magnet steels in said mold carrier to secure each of said molds to each hydration assemblies. 5. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said hydration assembly includes a convex surface which generally conforms to a concave surface of a contact lens to prevent excessive curl of a contact lens during hydration. 6. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein each hydration assembly is formed of polyetheretherketone and includes a circumferential wall having a plurality of openings formed therein, said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens mold. 7. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises a heater for heating the temperature of the hydration fluid. 8. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises a third robotic assembly includes a robotic dis-assembly device to remove said lens mold and said molds carrier plate from the lens hydration means. 9. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said transport further comprises an index conveyor for advancing each of said hydration carriers through extraction stations. 10. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said mold carrier includes a plurality of openings for receiving said plurality of contact lens molds from said first robotic assembly, each of said openings having a resilient member therein for receiving a one of said contact lens molds. 11. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 10 in which said mold carrier further includes a plurality of magnet steels for cooperating with a plurality of magnets carried by a top chamber plate to secure said mold carrier to said top chamber plate. 12. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 11 in which said top chamber plate supports said plurality of lens hydration means, with a single one of said lens hydration means aligned with a single one of said contact lens molds carried by said mold carrier to thereby form a hydration carrier. 13. An automated apparatus for hydrating a hydrophilic contact lens, said apparatus comprising: (a) a plurality of carriers, each carrier having (i) a lens hydration means, said lens hydration means having a plurality of lens hydration elements, each hydration element having a convex surface, and each convex surface including a fluid port therein for introducing a fluid between said convex surface and a contact lens carrier in said mold; (ii) a mold carrier, said mold carrier defining a plurality of openings to receive a plurality of contact lens molds with contact lenses molded therein, each of said molds associated with a lens hydration element to define a hydration chamber therebetween; (b) a plurality of automated hydration and extraction stations, each station having a discharge manifold, said discharge manifold cooperating with said carriers to provide a flow of fluid within each hydration chamber; (c) an index transport for conveying each of said hydration carrier means through each of said plurality of extraction stations; and (d) a controller for sequencing the flow of fluid at each station with the conveyance of each carrier means thereto. 14. An automated apparatus for hydrating a hydrophilic contact lens as claimed in claim 13 wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into said hydration chambers at each hydration and extraction station to flush leachable substances from the hydrating chambers. 15. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein said apparatus further includes a transport path between each of said automated hydration and extraction stations wherein a fluid in said hydration chamber and an incremental residence time on said transport path between said hydration and extraction stations is used to extract impurities from said contact lens through mass transfer exchange. 16. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said controller controls said incremental residence time and the duration of the flow of deionized water through each hydration chamber. 17. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein each of said lens hydration elements further includes a body portion having a circumferential wall with a radial opening formed therein, said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens mold. 18. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said apparatus further comprises a final station for separating said lens hydration means and said lens molds, said final station having a fluid discharge manifold to supply a fluid to an orifice defined in said convex surface to ensure said lens remains in said mold at the separation of said mold carrier. 19. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said mold carrier includes a frame having a plurality of resilient supports for centering and supporting each of said contact lens molds during transport. 