A stitching apparatus and end effector system particularly suited for stitching composite preforms includes a six-degree-of-freedom manipulator arm and an end effector that is releasably coupled to the end of the manipulator arm by a quick-change coupler system. The end effector comprises a C-shaped bow having a pair of spaced-apart legs the free ends of which support a stitching head and a bobbin in opposing relation so that a workpiece to be stitched can be received between the stitching head and bobbin. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, a plurality of bows of different configurations are provided, each having a quick-change coupler on each leg for releasably coupling the stitching head and the bobbin to the bow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stitching end effector for a robotic stitching apparatus having a manipulator arm for positioning the end effector, the end effector comprising: a bow having a distal end and a proximal end and including spaced-apart first and second legs defining a workpiece-receiving space therebetween, the legs having spaced-apart free ends at the distal end of the bow such that a portion of a workpiece to be stitched can pass between the free ends of the legs into the workpiece-receiving space; a stitching head affixed to the first leg proximate the distal end of the bow and operable for supporting and driving a needle for stitching a workpiece; a bobbin affixed to the second leg opposite and spaced from the stitching head such that said portion of the workpiece can be positioned between the stitching head and the bobbin, the bobbin being operable to coact with the stitching head for stitching the workpiece; a pair of cooperative stitching head couplers, one of the stitching head couplers being affixed to the first leg and the other stitching head coupler being affixed to the stitching head, the stitching head couplers being operable to releasably engage each other so as to secure the stitching head to the first leg of the bow; and a bow coupler affixed to the bow and adapted to releasably couple the bow to the manipulator arm of the robotic sewing apparatus. 2. The stitching end effector of claim 1, further comprising: a pair of cooperative bobbin couplers, one of the bobbin couplers being affixed to the second leg and the other bobbin coupler being affixed to the bobbin, the bobbin couplers being operable to releasably engage each other so as to secure the bobbin to the second leg of the bow. 3. The stitching end effector of claim 1, wherein the bow includes a connecting beam and the first and second legs are attached to opposite ends of the connecting beam, and wherein the bow coupler is attached to one of the connecting beam, the first leg, and the second leg. 4. The stitching end effector of claim 1, wherein the bow defines a bow axis extending from the proximal end toward the distal end of the bow, the legs being spaced on opposite sides of the bow axis, and wherein the connecting beam extends between the legs in a transverse direction generally perpendicular to the bow axis. 5. The stitching end effector of claim 4, wherein the bow is configured such that the workpiece-receiving space has a width in the transverse direction that is generally constant from the distal end to the proximal end of the bow. 6. The stitching end effector of claim 4, wherein the bow is configured such that the workpiece-receiving space has a width in the transverse direction that is smaller at the distal end than at medial portions of the bow. 7. A robotic stitching apparatus for stitching three-dimensional workpieces, comprising: a six-degree-of-freedom manipulator having a manipulator arm with an end effector coupler attached to a free end of the manipulator arm; a stitching end effector formed as a generally C-shaped bow having spaced-apart first and second legs defining a workpiece-receiving space therebetween, the legs having spaced-apart free ends such that a portion of a workpiece to be stitched can pass between the free ends of the legs into the workpiece-receiving space, the first and second legs respectively supporting a stitching head that drives a needle along a stitching axis and a bobbin that are cooperable for stitching said portion of the workpiece positioned between the free ends of the legs, the stitching end effector having an end effector coupler affixed to the bow and cooperable with the end effector coupler on the manipulator arm so as to releasably secure the stitching end effector to the free end of the manipulator arm; and the manipulator arm being operable to continuously adjust the position and orientation of the end effector relative to the workpiece such that the needle axis is maintained substantially perpendicular to an outer surface of the portion of the workpiece. 8. The robotic stitching apparatus of claim 7, wherein the stitching end effector includes a pair of cooperable stitching head couplers, one of the stitching head couplers being affixed to the first leg and the other stitching head coupler being affixed to the stitching head, the stitching head couplers being operable to releasably engage each other so as to secure the stitching head to the first leg of the bow. 9. The robotic stitching apparatus of claim 8, wherein the stitching end effector includes a pair of cooperable bobbin couplers, one of the bobbin couplers being affixed to the second leg and the other bobbin coupler being affixed to the bobbin, the bobbin couplers being operable to releasably engage each other so as to secure the bobbin to the second leg of the bow. 10. The robotic stitching apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a plurality of bows each having an end effector coupler, a stitching head coupler and a bobbin coupler, each bow having a length measured along a bow axis from the proximal end to the distal end and a width measured normal to the bow axis, the combination of length and width of each bow being unique to that bow, whereby the end effector geometry is varied by coupling a selected one of the bows to the manipulator arm and coupling the stitching head and bobbin to the selected bow. 11. A bow for a stitching end effector, comprising: spaced-apart first and second legs defining a workpiece-receiving space therebetween, and a connector beam extending generally in a transverse direction between and joined to the legs, the legs having spaced-apart free ends such that a portion of a workpiece to be stitched can pass between the free ends of the legs into the workpiece-receiving space, the connector beam and legs defining a generally C-shaped bow having a proximal end at the connector beam and a distal end at the free ends of the legs, wherein the bow is configured such that the workpiece-receiving space has a width in the transverse direction that is smaller at the distal end than at medial portions of the bow; a stitching head coupler affixed to the first leg proximate the distal end of the bow and operable to releasably engage a coupling device on a stitching head so as to secure the stitching head to the first leg of the bow; a bobbin coupler affixed to the second leg proximate the distal end of the bow and operable to releasably engage a coupling device on a bobbin so as to secure the bobbin to the second leg of the bow; and a bow coupler affixed to the bow at a location spaced from the distal end toward the proximal end and adapted to releasably couple the bow to a manipulator arm of a robotic sewing apparatus. 12. The bow of claim 11, wherein the bow defines a bow axis extending from the proximal end toward the distal end of the bow, the legs being spaced on opposite sides of the bow axis, and wherein the connecting beam extends between the legs in the transverse direction generally perpendicular to the bow axis. 13. The bow of claim 11, wherein the bow coupler is attached to the connecting beam. 14. The bow of claim 11, wherein the bow coupler is attached to the first leg. 