A two-dimensional array of magnetomechanical markers is adhered to a continuous web. A magnetizer element is scanned across the web to magnetize the bias elements in a group of the markers with a first polarity, thereby activating the group of markers. The web is then advanced and the magnetizer is scanned across the web in an opposite direction to the previous scan, to magnetize the bias elements of a second group of the markers with a second polarity, thereby activating the second group of markers. The web is slit in a longitudinal direction to produce web-strips each carrying a column of the activated markers. The web-strips are rolled to form marker roll assemblies each having about half the bias elements magnetized with a first polarity and the remaining bias elements magnetized with an opposite polarity. The roll of activated markers forms no more than a minimal "leakage" magnetic field.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A roll assembly of magnetomechanical EAS markers, comprising: a backing sheet having a length extent and a width extent, said length extent being at least 10 times as long as said width extent; and a plurality of magnetomechanical markers adhered to said backing sheet, said markers each including an active element for resonating in response to an EAS interrogation signal and a bias element for applying a bias magnetic field to said active element, each said marker having a longitudinal axis and being oriented relative to said backing sheet so that said longitudinal axis is transverse to the length extent of said backing sheet, said plurality of markers consisting of a first subset and a second subset, the markers of said first subset having respective bias elements that are magnetized with a north polarity oriented in a first direction that is transverse relative to the length extent of said backing sheet, the markers of said second subset having respective bias elements that are magnetized with a north polarity oriented in a second direction that is transverse relative to the length extent of said backing sheet and is opposite to the first direction, each of said first and second subsets consisting of at least 30% and no more than 70% of said plurality of markers. 2. A roll assembly according to claim 1, wherein each of said first and second subsets consists of substantially 50% of said plurality of markers. 3. A roll assembly according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 500 markers. 4. A roll assembly according to claim 3, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 1,000 markers. 5. A roll assembly according to claim 4, wherein the bias elements of the markers of said roll assembly do not collectively produce a demagnetization field that exceeds 10 Oe. 6. A roll assembly according to claim 5, wherein said backing sheet is rolled so as to form said assembly into a substantially cylindrical shape. 7. A roll assembly according to claim 6, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 2,500 markers. 8. A roll assembly according to claim 7, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 5,000 markers. 9. A roll assembly according to claim 7, wherein said roll assembly occupies a volume of less than 1,500 cc. 10. A roll assembly according to claim 1, wherein each adjacent pair of said plurality of markers on said backing sheet includes a marker from said first subset and a marker from said second subset. 11. A roll assembly of magnetomechanical EAS markers, comprising: a backing sheet having a length extent and a width extent, said length extent being at a least 10 times as long as said width extent; and a plurality of magnetomechanical markers adhered to said backing sheet, said markers each including an active element for resonating in response to an EAS interrogation signal and a bias element for applying a bias magnetic field to said active element, the bias element of each said marker being magnetized so as to bias the active element of the respective marker to be resonant at a predetermined operating frequency of an EAS system, said plurality of markers including at least 500 markers, said backing sheet being rolled so as to form said assembly into a substantially cylindrical shape, and said bias elements of said plurality of markers not collectively producing a demagnetization field that exceeds 10 Oe. 12. A roll assembly according to claim 11, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 1000 markers. 13. A roll assembly according to claim 12, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 2500 markers. 14. A roll assembly according to claim 13, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 5000 markers. 15. A roll assembly according to claim 13, wherein said roll assembly occupies a volume of less than 1,500 cc. 16. A method of activating magnetomechanical EAS markers adhered to a continuous web, the method comprising the steps of: first transporting a magnetizer element in a first direction transverse to said web and in proximity to a first group of said markers to magnetize respective bias elements of said first group of said markers; after said first transporting step, indexing said web in a longitudinal direction of said web; and after said indexing step, second transporting said magnetizer element in a second direction transverse to said web, opposite to said first direction, and in proximity to a second group of said markers different from said first group, to magnetize respective bias elements of said second group of markers. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said first group of markers includes some but not all of the markers in said second group of markers. 18. A method according to claim 16, wherein said magnetizer element has a length extent, and said transporting steps are performed with said length extent of said magnetizer element parallel to said longitudinal direction of said web. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein said indexing step consists of moving said web in said longitudinal direction thereof by a distance that is substantially equal to said length extent of said magnetizer element. 20. A method according to claim 18, wherein said indexing step consists of moving said web in said longitudinal direction thereof by a distance that is less than said length extent of said magnetizer element. 21. A method according to claim 16, further comprising the steps of: after said second transporting step, slitting the web in a direction parallel to the longitudinal direction of the web to form plural web-strips each carrying at least 50 of said markers, and rolling said web-strips. 22. A method according to claim 16, further comprising the step of: sequentially slitting the web in a direction transverse to the longitudinal direction of the web to produce a sequence of cut sheets, each carrying at least 20 markers. 23. A method according to claim 22, further comprising the step of stacking said cut sheets. 24. A magnetizer element for activating magnetomechanical EAS markers, the magnetizer element comprising: a steel channel having a substantially U-shaped cross-section and a length extent transversely extending relative to said cross section; and a magnet housed in said channel and having a length extent parallel to said length extent of said channel, said magnet having a first magnetic polarity region on a first side of said magnet and extending parallel to said length extent and along an open side of said channel, and a second magnetic polarity region extending parallel to said length extent and on a second side of said magnet opposite to said first side, said second magnetic polarity region having a magnetic polarity opposite to that of said first region. 25. A magnetizer element according to claim 24, wherein said first magnetic polarity region is a north pole and said second magnetic polarity region is a south pole. 26. A magnetizer element according to claim 24, wherein said first magnetic polarity region is a south pole and said second magnetic polarity region is a north pole. 27. A magnetizer element according to claim 24, wherein said steel channel has first and second end portions at opposite ends of said length extent, and further comprising an end plate arranged at said first end portion of said steel channel and oriented orthogonally to said length extent. 28. A magnetizer element for activating magnetomechanical EAS markers, the magnetizer element comprising: a steel channel having a substantially U-shaped cross-section and a length extent transversely extending relative to said cross section; a first plurality of discrete permanent magnets arranged adjacent one another in a first row; a second plurality of discrete permanent magnets arranged adjacent one another in a second row; said first and second rows of magnets being mounted in said steel channel and both extending in parallel to said length extent of said steel channel; every magnet of said first and second pluralities having a first magnetic polarity region on a first side of the respective magnet, said first side being oriented toward an open side of said channel, and a second magnetic polarity region on a second side of the respective magnet opposite to said first side, said second magnetic polarity region having a magnetic polarity opposite to that of said first region, all of said first regions having the same magnetic polarity. 29. A magnetizer element according to claim 28, wherein each of said first magnetic polarity regions is a north pole and each of said second magnetic polarity regions is a south pole. 30. A magnetizer element according to claim 28, wherein each of said first magnetic polarity regions is a south pole and each of said second magnetic polarity regions is a north pole. 31. A magnetizer element according to claim 28, wherein said steel channel has first and second end portions at opposite ends of said length extent, and further comprising an end plate arranged at said first end portion of said steel channel and oriented orthogonally to said length extent. 32. A magnetizer element according to claim 28, wherein said permanent magnets are formed of a material selected from the group consisting of neodymium iron boron, alnico, ferrite, a ceramic magnetic material, and a bonded magnetic material. 33. A magnetizer element for activating magnetomechanical EAS markers, the magnetizer element comprising: a steel channel having a substantially U-shaped cross-section and a length extent transversely extending relative to said cross section; a first plurality of discrete permanent magnets arranged adjacent one another in a first row, said first row of magnets being mounted in said steel channel so as to extend in parallel to said length extent of said steel channel, each of said first plurality of discrete permanent magnets having a length extent arranged parallel to said length extent of said channel, said length extent of said discrete magnets being no longer than a pitch distance at which rows of said EAS markers are arranged along a web to be scanned with said magnetizer element. 34. A magnetizer element according to claim 33, wherein each of said magnets has a first side oriented toward an open side of said steel channel and a first magnetic polarity region at said first side and having a magnetic polarity opposite to a magnetic polarity of the first magnetic polarity region of an adjoining one of said magnets. 35. A magnetizer element according to claim 34, further comprising a second plurality of discrete permanent magnets arranged adjacent one another in a second row mounted in said steel channel parallel to said first row of magnets, each magnet of said second row being located adjacent a corresponding magnet of the first row and having a length extent substantially equal to the length extent of the corresponding magnet of the first row, each magnet of the second row having a first side oriented toward said open end of the steel channel and a first magnetic polarity region at said first side and having a magnetic polarity that is the same as the magnetic polarity of the first magnetic polarity region of the corresponding magnet of the first row. 36. A magnetizer element according to claim 33, wherein said steel channel has first and second end portions at opposite ends of said length extent of said channel, and further comprising an end plate arranged at said first end portion of said channel and oriented orthogonally to said length extent of said channel. 37. A magnetizer element according to claim 33, wherein said permanent magnets are formed of a material selected from the group consisting of neodymium iron boron, alnico, ferrite, a ceramic magnetic material, and a bonded magnetic material. 38. A magnetizer element according to claim 33, wherein said length extent of said discrete magnets is not substantially shorter than a width extent of said EAS markers. 39. Apparatus for activating magnetomechanical EAS markers adhered to a continuous web, the apparatus comprising: means for advancing said web in increments in a longitudinal direction of said web; a magnetizer element; transport means for transporting said magnetizer element in a first direction transverse to a longitudinal direction of said web before said web is advanced by one of said increments and for transporting said magnetizer element in a second direction, transverse to said web and opposite to said first direction, after said web is advanced by said one of said increments; and control means for controlling said means for advancing and said transport means. 40. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein each of said increments corresponds to a multiple of a pitch at which said markers are positioned in said longitudinal direction of said web. 41. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said magnetizer element has a length extent, and said means for transporting transports said magnetizer element in said first and second directions with said magnetizer element oriented so that said length extent of said magnetizer element is parallel to said longitudinal direction of said web. 42. Apparatus according to claim 39, further comprising means, downstream from said transport means, for slitting the web in a direction parallel to the longitudinal direction of the web to form plural web strips. 43. Apparatus according to claim 42, further comprising means, downstream from said slitting means, for rolling said web strips. 44. Apparatus according to claim 39, further comprising means, downstream from said transport means, for slitting the web in a direction transverse to the longitudinal direction of the web to form plural cut sheets. 45. An accumulation of a plurality of magnetomechanical EAS markers, said markers each including an active element for resonating in response to an EAS interrogation signal and a bias element for applying a bias magnetic field to said active element, said accumulation of markers comprising a backing sheet to which the markers are adhered, the markers adhered to said backing sheet including a first subset of said markers and a second subset of said markers, the markers of said first subset having respective bias elements that are magnetized with a north polarity oriented in a first direction, and the markers of said second subset having respective bias elements that are magnetized with a north polarity oriented in a second direction different from said first direction. 46. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 45 wherein the markers all have a longitudinal axis and are adhered to the backing sheet with their respective longitudinal axes in parallel, and said second direction is opposite to said first direction. 47. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 46, wherein no more than 60% of the markers are of the first subset and no more than 60% of the markers are of the second subset. 48. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 47, wherein the markers are adhered to the backing sheet in rows. 49. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 48, wherein alternate ones of said rows of markers consist of markers of said first subset, and all others of said rows of markers consist of markers of said second subset. 50. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 49, wherein there are no more than 20 rows of markers on said backing sheet. 51. A stack of a plurality of backing sheets with magnetomechanical markers arranged thereon in accordance with claim 49. 52. A stack of a plurality of backing sheets according to claim 51, wherein no two vertically adjacent markers in the stack have their respective bias elements magnetized with north polarities oriented in the same direction. 53. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 47, wherein said backing sheet has a length dimension at least ten times as long as a width dimension of the backing sheet. 54. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 53, wherein said backing sheet is rolled to form a roll of said markers. 55. An accumulation of a plurality of magnetomechanical EAS markers located in proximity to each other, said markers each including an active element for resonating in response to an EAS interrogation signal and a bias element for applying a bias magnetic field to said active element, each said marker having a longitudinal axis and said plurality of markers all being oriented so as to have their respective longitudinal axes in parallel, said plurality of markers comprising at least 100 markers and consisting of a first subset and a second subset, the markers of said first subset having respective bias elements that are magnetized with a north polarity oriented in a first direction, and the markers of said second subset having respective bias elements that are magnetized with a north polarity oriented in a second direction opposite to said first direction, each of said first and second subsets consisting of at least 30% and no more than 70% of said plurality of markers. 56. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 55, wherein each of said first and second subsets consists of substantially 50% of said plurality of markers. 57. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 55, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 500 markers. 58. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 57, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 1000 markers. 59. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 58, wherein the bias elements of said markers do not collectively produce a demagnetization field that exceeds 10 Oe. 60. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 59, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 2,500 markers. 61. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 60, wherein said plurality of markers includes at least 5,000 markers. 62. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 55, including a plurality of backing sheets to each of which a plurality of said markers are adhered, said plurality of backing sheets being arranged in a stack. 63. An accumulation of magnetomechanical EAS markers according to claim 55, including a continuous backing strip supporting said plurality of markers and rolled so as to have a spiral cross-section. 