A laser system (called a UV Dermablator) and method that enables a clean, precise removal of skin while minimizing collateral damage to the skin underlying the treated region. The depth of ablation can be controlled via feedback from the physiology of the skin, namely the infusion of blood into the area of excision when skin has been ablated to a sufficient depth to produce bleeding. A second laser, such as a uv light source with a different wavelength, to penetrate the blood, heating it sufficiently to coagulate the blood. Other features provide precise control, permitting the epidermis to be removed down to the papillary dermis, following the undulations of the papillary dermis. This lateral and depth control may be accomplished by using careful observation, assisted by spectroscopic detection, to identify when the epidermis has been removed, exposing the underlying dermis, with spatial resolution appropriate for the spacing of the undulations of the papillary dermis. Yet other features which provide a feedback control mechanism which utilizes the optical characteristics such as the color, appearance and remittance of the definable skin layers to control the depth of ablation at each location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical system for removing skin, comprising: a pulsed light source capable of delivering a fluence F exceeding an ablation threshold fluence F.sub.th ; a second light source illuminating the skin; a control mechanism, coupled to the pulsed light source, for directing light from the pulsed light source to locations on the skin and controllably ablating a skin location to a desired depth, said control mechanism directing the pulsed light source to deliver multiple pulses of directed light at the locations on the skin and repeatedly scanning the directed light across a designated area of the skin; and a feedback mechanism coupled to the control mechanism, the feedback mechanism comprising at least one photodetector having an input and an output: the input receiving light from the second light source that is scattered/reflected/flouresced by the skin; and the output providing a feedback signal to the control mechanism, which is adapted for detecting a change in the spectral shape or brightness of the light scattered/reflected/flouresced by the skin and causing the pulsed light source to be inhibited at a given skin location, in response to the change. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the light source is an ultraviolet light source. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the light source is a laser selected from a group consisting of: an argon fluoride (ArF) laser having a wavelength of approximately 193 nm; a krypton fluoride (KrF) laser having a wavelength of approximately 248 nm; a xenon chloride (XeCl) laser having a wavelength of approximately 308 nm; a xenon fluoride (XeF) laser having a wavelength of approximately 351 nm; and an Er:YAG laser. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the control mechanism comprises means for controllably ablating the epidermis along the contours of an epidermal/dermal boundary. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for controllably ablating further comprises means for detecting a color change near or at the epidermal/dermal boundary. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the second light source comprises a visible light source. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the second light source comprises an infrared light source. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the second light source comprises ambient light source. 9. The system of claim 1, the second light source comprising a light source which is both relatively highly absorbed by epidermal melanin and relatively highly remitted by a dermal layer. 10. The surgical system of claim 1 wherein the light source is a laser wherein the system further comprises a mechanism for focusing the laser beam to a small spot approximately .about.25 .mu.m in diameter. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the second light source provides an inhibiting signal to the feedback mechanism for inhibiting the pulsed light source in response to the appearance of blood following a delivery of directed light from the pulsed light source. 12. In a surgical system including a pulsed light source capable of delivering a fluence F exceeding an ablation threshold fluence F.sub.th, a method for removing skin, comprising the steps of: directing light from the pulsed light source to locations on the skin; delivering, from the pulsed light source, multiple pulses of directed light at the locations on the skin; repeatedly scanning the directed light across a designated area of the skin; receiving from a second light source, light that is scattered/reflected/flouresced by the skin; detecting a change in the spectral shape or brightness of the light scattered/reflected/flouresced by the skin; and controllably ablating a given skin location to a desired depth by inhibiting the pulsed light source at the given skin location, in response to the change. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the light source is an ultraviolet light source. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the light source is a laser selected from a group consisting of: an argon fluoride (ArF) laser having a wavelength of approximately 193 nm; a krypton fluoride (KrF) laser having a wavelength of approximately 248 nm; a xenon chloride (XeCl) laser having a wavelength of approximately 308 nm; a xenon fluoride (XeF) laser having a wavelength of approximately 351 nm; and an Er:YAG laser. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said controllably determining step comprises the step of controllably ablating the epidermis along the contours of an epidermal/dermal boundary. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein said controllably determining step further comprises the step of detecting a color change near or at the epidermal/dermal boundary. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the second light source is selected from a group consisting of: a visible light source; an infrared light source; and an ambient light source. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the second light source is both relatively highly absorbed by epidermal melanin and relatively highly remitted by a dermal layer. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein said inhibiting step further comprises the step of inhibiting the pulsed light source at a given location, in response to the appearance of blood. 