The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for heating substrates in a processing chamber to temperatures up to at least 700.degree. C. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a heater assembly with an inner core of high thermal conductivity is encased in a shell of lower thermal conductivity, creating a nearly isothermal interface between the core and shell. The inner core is brazed to the shell, promoting thermal transfer, and acts as a thermal short between opposing surfaces of the shell. The heater assembly is designed to minimize thermal stresses arising from the difference in the thermal expansion coefficients of the various components of the multi-layered heater assembly. In one embodiment of the invention, two independently-powered heating elements are arranged concentrically to each other to create a dual zone heater. A thermal gap in the inner core between the inner and outer heating elements de-couples the zones and provides a more controllable temperature profile at the surface of the heater, including excellent temperature uniformity. In one embodiment, an RF isolator is placed between a heater and a support shaft, allowing the heater to be powered as an electrode in a plasma process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber; a heater power system; and a heater assembly having, an inner core of a first metal, an outer shell of a second metal surrounding said inner core and including a surface for supporting a substrate, and a resistive heating element symmetrically disposed between an upper surface and a lower surface of said outer shell, said first metal having a higher thermal conductivity than said second metal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said inner core is brazed to said shell. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first metal comprises copper and said second metal comprises at least about 3 percent molybdenum and at least about 10 percent chromium. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first metal comprises copper and said second metal comprises an alloy sold under the name HASTELLOY. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a metal heat shield disposed to said heating assembly such that at least one major planar surface of said heat shield has a plurality of layers substantially parallel to at least one major planar surface of said heater assembly wherein adjacent layers define a gap between said layers. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heating element has a first heating element and a second heating element, said first heating element being controlled by a first heater controller, and said second heating element being controlled by a second heater controller; and wherein said inner core has a thermal gap defining a first portion of said inner core and a second portion of said inner core, said thermal gap providing thermal isolation between said first portion of said inner core and said second portion of said inner core. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heater assembly has a cooling tube conveying a cooling medium to said heater assembly to facilitate cooling of said heater assembly. 8. A heater pedestal for heating a substrate to a temperature of at least about 400.degree. C. comprising: an inner core of a first metal; a shell of a second metal surrounding said first metal, said first metal having a first thermal conductivity greater than a second thermal conductivity of said second metal; a resistive heating element brazed into a groove in said inner core such that said resistive heating element is symmetrical within said inner core and said shell; a stub shaft coupled to a lower portion of said shell; an isolator coupled to said stub shaft with a first cantilever clamp; a support shaft coupled to said isolator with a second cantilever clamp; and a radio-frequency electrode electrically coupled to said inner core, said shell, or said stub shaft. 9. The heater pedestal of claim 8 further comprising a coupler having at least one tensioning arm capable of maintaining a hoop stress around a perimeter of said isolator over a predetermined operating temperature range of said heater pedestal. 10. The heater pedestal of claim 8 further comprising at least one heat choke between said stub shaft and said support shaft. 11. A radio-frequency heater pedestal for heating a substrate to a temperature of at least about 400.degree. C. comprising: a metal heater; a metal heater stub; a first spacer made of the metal sold under the name KOVAR.RTM., said first spacer welded to said metal heater stub; a ceramic isolator bonded to said first spacer to form a first gas-tight ceramic-to-metal bond; a second spacer made of the metal sold under the name KOVAR.RTM. bonded to said ceramic isolator to form a second gas-tight ceramic-to-metal bond; and a lower support shaft welded to said second spacer, wherein said metal stub, said first spacer, said ceramic isolator, said second spacer, and said lower support shaft define a contiguous volume within the heater pedestal, said contiguous volume containing at least one heater electrode and at least one RF electrode. 