A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a singulation station having a sliding surface that assists an operator in singulating needles and depositing them in a pair of drop locations for subsequent automatic handling. Indexing conveyors, an articulated robot and a precision conveyor are used with a precise positioning station for orienting each needle for automatic handling. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A suture feeding and cutting station automatically cuts an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length suture strand and automatically inserts an end of the definite length suture strand into the suture receiving opening formed in the needle. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. A suture pull-test station test each needle suture bond, and selectively and destructively tests the bond for adjusting the swage dies and for statistical quality control. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a needle singulating station for receiving a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said station including a sliding surface for assisting an operator in singulating surgical needles for transfer to an indexing conveyor; (b) a robotic apparatus for transferring said surgical needles from said indexing conveyor to a precise positioning apparatus, said robotic apparatus and said precise positioning apparatus orienting each surgical needle in a precise position for subsequent automatic handling at a first predetermined location; (c) a universal gripper for receiving each precisely positioned surgical needle at said first predetermined location and indexing each of said surgical needles in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive locations for sequential processing at subsequent predetermined locations; (d) a suture cutting station located at a second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle; (e) a swage station for swaging said surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly; (f) means for receiving said needle and suture assemblies from said universal gripper for subsequent packaging; whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a plurality of needle and suture assemblies. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said universal gripper means includes a compound movement from a first retracted position to a second extended position with respect to said indexing means. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said robotic apparatus further comprises: (a) first means for obtaining an image of said needles deposited upon said first conveyor means, said means including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals; (b) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for a selected randomly positioned needle upon said indexing conveyor means; and (d) gripper means for removing said randomly positioned needle from said indexing conveyor and positioning it upon said precise positioning apparatus for further orientation and conveyance thereof, wherein said transfer means grasps each of said selected needles in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data when removing it from said indexing conveyor. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said singulating station further includes a sliding surface with at least one insert drop for singulating said surgical needles for deposition upon said indexing conveyor means, each of said singulated needles being deposited upon said indexing conveyor means in a spaced apart relation. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said computer control means further includes a means for processing said positional and orientation data to obtain therefrom instructions for enabling said gripper means to grasp said selected randomly deposited needle in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said means for obtaining an image of said randomly deposited needles includes one or more video cameras. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said singulating station further includes at least one insert drop positioned above a transfer surface adjacent said indexing conveyor so that individual surgical needles can be automatically transferred from said transfer surface to said indexing conveyor. 9. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said gripper means includes an articulated robot arm for grasping each of said needles based upon said positional and orientation data received from said computer control means. 10. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said precise positioning apparatus includes a plurality of carrier means each for receiving a single surgical needle from said gripping means, each individual carrier means having a means for engaging a single surgical needle transferred thereto. 11. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein each of said engaging means includes a first fixed jaw and a second movable jaw for engaging a needle positioned therebetween by said gripping means. 12. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said carrier means further includes spring means for biasing said second movable jaw into engagement with said first fixed jaw to retain said needle positioned therebetween. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said carrier means further includes means for retracting said second movable jaw from engagement with said fixed jaw for removing said needle positioned therebetween. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said means for retracting said second movable jaw from engagement with said fixed jaw is a push rod for pushing said second movable jaw in opposition to said bias of said spring means. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 further including a second means for obtaining a second video image of a second individually singulated surgical needle, said second video image being processed by said computer control means for obtaining positional and orientation data of a second selected individually singulated surgical needle, said control means selecting a surgical needle to be positioned from said first or said second individually singulated needles, wherein said gripping means grasps said second singulated surgical needle based upon its respective positional and orientation data and transfers said needle to said precision conveyor means when said computer control means determines that said first singulated surgical needs cannot be transferred by said gripping means. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said precision conveyor means further includes a first orienting plough for orienting each of said needles positioned on their respective carrier means in a uniform direction. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said precision conveyor further includes a pre-positioning means for further orienting said needle within said first and second engagement jaws of said carrier means. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said precision conveyor means further includes a moveable hard stop assembly for further orienting said needle to within 0.001 inch of said predetermined orientation upon said carrier means. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said precision conveyor means positions said carrier means in a confrontingly opposed relation with said universal gripper means to enable said first and second jaws of said universal gripper means to receive said oriented needle from said carrier means. 20. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said universal gripper means is horizontally translated as it is reciprocated into a gripping position to enable said jaws to grip said surgical needle in said oriented position. 21. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said indexing means conveys said needle to said second location with said universal gripping means engaging said needle in said oriented position. 22. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said second means located at said second predetermined location comprises: (a) a drawing frame, said frame having at least one longitudinal member and defining a drawing axis parallel thereto; (b) means for feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (c) first and second gripping means for gripping said indefinite length suture strand and drawing it along said drawing axis, said first gripping means mounted for reciprocal movement on said at least one longitudinal member; (d) means for cutting said indefinite length suture strand; and (e) said second gripping means reciprocal to a start position along said drawing axis and below said cutting means, while said first drawing means is drawing said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutting means, whereby said indefinite length suture strand is inserted within said suture receiving opening of said needle and cut to a predetermined length by said cutting means after said second gripping means has gripped said indefinite length suture strand at said start position. 23. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said at least one longitudinal member further defines reciprocal guide means for said first and second gripping means. 24. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 23 further comprising first and second drive motors for enabling reciprocal movement of respective first and second gripping means. 25. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 24 further comprising a computer control means for said first and second drive motors to draw said indefinite length suture strand to said predetermined distance beyond said cutting means. 26. An apparatus as claimed in claim 25 further comprising a moveable carrier mounted for selective movement along said drawing axis, said movable carrier having a heating means for tipping said suture mounted thereon. 27. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said computer control means further comprises at least one sensor means for determining the position of said moveable carrier. 28. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said feeding means further comprises means for automatically tensioning said indefinite length suture according to a predefined suture type during at least the drawing and cutting thereof. 29. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein each of said first and second gripping means further include retractable gripping elements having a first engaged position and a second retracted position, wherein one of said first and second gripping means traverses the drawing axis on a draw stroke with gripping elements engaged, and the other of said first and second gripping means reciprocates along the same axis with the gripping elements retracted to avoid mechanical interference therewith. 30. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 further including a first vacuum means for temporarily restraining the cut end of said suture strand after cutting thereof. 31. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 30 further including a second vacuum means for proximate positioning of said indefinite length suture strand prior to cutting. 32. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said carrier further comprises means for heat treating a portion of said indefinite length strand of suture material while under tension at said treatment zone to form a tipped portion of said indefinite length strand. 33. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 32 wherein said heat treating means is mounted on said movable carrier remote from said cutting means. 34. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said heat treating means is heating a portion of said strand at a position remote from said to allow for partial hardening of said suture prior to cutting thereof. 35. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said cutting means cuts said stiffened strand remote from said treatment zone to create a suture strand of definite length supported by said first gripping means and a suture strand of indefinite length supported by said second gripping means, with stiffened portions above each gripping means. 36. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said swage station includes first and second swaging die means, said first swaging die means having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die means having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said second swaging die means is positioned next to said first swaging die means to form a swage die opening for receiving said needle. 37. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said first swaging die means is fixed in position and said second swaging die means is laterally movable toward and away from said first fixed swage die means. 38. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said swage die opening is axially aligned with said drawing axis at said second predetermined position, with said universal gripper means in said retracted position at said predetermined position prior to positioning said surgical needle within said swage die opening, and is extended and translated in a compound movement to position said suture receiving opening of said needle in said swage die opening prior to swaging. 39. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 38 wherein said swage station further includes a funnel guide means positioned at said insertion zone between a free end of said definite length suture strand and said suture receiving opening of said needle, said funnel die means including a tapered opening axially aligned with said swage die opening for directing said free end of said suture strand into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned therein. 40. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said funnel guide means further includes a registration means for aligning it with at least one of said first and second swaging dies. 41. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 40 wherein said funnel guide means includes a first fixed suture alignment die having an end thereof defining a portion of said tapered opening, and a second movable suture alignment die having an end thereof defining another portion of said tapered opening, wherein said second movable suture alignment die is positioned next to said first fixed suture alignment die to form said tapered opening. 42. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said tapered opening has a suture exit diameter that is larger than the diameter of said suture strand and smaller than the diameter of said suture receiving opening defined in the needle. 43. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said first gripping means is advanced along said suture drawing axis to direct said free end of said suture strand through said funnel guide means and into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned in said swage die opening. 44. The suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 38 wherein said swaging means includes means for moving said second swage die means laterally away from said first swage die means prior to positioning said needle within said swage die opening. 45. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said moving means further moves said second swage die means toward said first swage die means to grip said needle placed therebetween. 46. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 45 wherein said moving means includes spring biasing means to provide a force sufficient to move said second swage die toward said first swage die to grip the needle without deforming said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned at said swage die opening. 47. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 46, wherein said moving means includes an air cylinder means for supplying adequate force to thrust said movable swage die means toward said first swage die means to accomplish swaging of said needle gripped therebetween. 48. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 47, wherein said second swage die means is thrust towards said first die means for a swaging stroke of a predetermined distance to accomplish said swaging. 49. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 48, wherein said moving means includes stop means for terminating the motion of said second swage die means during said swaging stroke. 50. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 49 wherein said jaws are opened to a non-engaging position for relaxing said surgical needle in said swage die opening after gripping but before swaging thereof. 51. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 50, wherein said swaging means further includes a fence for maintaining the position of said needle within said swage die opening during the swaging thereof. 52. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said swaging means further includes means for adjusting the position of said first swaging die means to change the amount of swage deformation occurring to said suture receiving opening during swaging thereof. 53. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 52 wherein said first fixed swaging die means includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof, said means for changing the position of said first fixed swaging die means including a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower to laterally move said wedge follower and said first fixed swaging die means in accordance with transverse movement of said wedge assembly. 54. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 53 wherein said transverse movement of said wedge assembly is controllable by a servomotor means for rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch, said rotation of said swage adjust screw being translated into linear motion of said wedge assembly. 55. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 54 wherein said computer control means determines and controls the optimum positioning of said first swaging die means to avoid over-swaging and underswaging said needle. 56. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said cutting means is a retractable cutter comprising: (a) a cutting blade mounted for at least reciprocal movement transverse to said first axis defined by said indefinite length strand from a first retracted position to a second cutting position; (b) first and second locator arms for accurately positioning said indefinite length strand of suture material for cutting thereof, and for supporting said strand as the cutting blade traverses said first axis as it reciprocates from said retracted position to said cutting position, whereby said cutting blade is angled with respect to its reciprocating motion to effect a slice ratio of at least 1:1 as said blade cuts said supported suture strand at said cutting position to obtain a clean, broom-free cut. 57. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 56 wherein said cutting means further comprises: (a) a stationary guide means, said guide means positioned adjacent said indefinite length suture strand to be cut; and (b) an actuator means mounted on said stationary guide for providing at least reciprocal movement along a second axis transverse to said first axis; wherein said cutting blade is responsive to said reciprocating actuator to move from said first retracted position to said second cutting position. 58. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57 wherein said first and second locating arms have support blocks located on a first end thereof and a pivotally mounting at a second end thereof with respect to said stationary guide for moving said support block means from a first retracted position to a second strand supporting position in response to movement of said actuator. 59. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 58, wherein said support blocks include a V-shaped notch for supporting said suture strand on two sides during the cutting thereof. 60. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 59, wherein said first and second locating arms further include an over center link which isolates motion from said actuator means after said support blocks have engaged said strand. 61. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said over center links translate reciprocal movement of said actuator means into pivotal movement for said locating arms. 62. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said stationary guide is spaced from said indefinite length strand by the effective length of said pivotal locating arm. 63. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57, wherein said first axis and said second axis are transverse to each other. 64. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57 further including a blade holder mounted on said actuator for supporting said cutting blade during reciprocal motion thereof. 65. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 61, wherein each of said first and second over center linkages further comprises first and second links, with said first link fixedly mounted on said actuator and said second link connecting said first link and said pivotal locating arm. 66. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57, wherein said cutting blade is angled with respect to said second axis to horizontally cut said strand with a slicing movement when said blade crosses said first axis. 67. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 66, wherein said cutting blade and said support blocks are both retracted behind said stationary guide when in their respective retracted positions. 68. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 50 wherein said one of said gripping jaws of said universal gripper means is actuated to said engaging position after swaging of said needle, to thereby engage said needle and suture assembly. 69. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 further including a suture test station at a third predetermined location for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle and suture assembly, said suture test station including a support means for supporting said needle and suture assembly. 70. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 69 wherein said indexing means conveys said needle and suture assembly to said third location with said universal gripping means engaging said needle in said oriented position. 71. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 70 wherein said universal gripper means is in said retracted position prior to positioning said needle and suture assembly upon said support means, and is extended to position said needle and suture assembly upon said blade means while enabling said suture strand to be threaded within said support means. 72. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 69 wherein said suture test station for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle and suture assembly further includes at least one suture gripping means for positively gripping said suture strand at a first position below said support means, said suture test station including a pneumatic drive for applying a positive downward force of predetermined value to said gripped suture strand to destructively test the strength of said swage bond. 73. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 69 wherein said suture test station for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle and suture assembly includes a pneumatic drive means for maintaining said gripping means at a first home position prior to applying said positive downward force to said gripped suture. 74. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 72 wherein the force applied by said pneumatic drive is computer controlled and said universal gripper means is computer controlled to release its engagement of said needle and suture assembly at the time of or before said suture gripping means grips said suture to enable said pneumatic drive to apply said destructive downward force to said suture strand to thereby test the strength of said swage bond. 75. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 73 wherein said suture gripping means and said pneumatic drive are positioned substantially parallel with a vertical axis defined by said suture strand. 76. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 75 wherein said pneumatic drive includes a first air cylinder means for applying upward pressure to a slide block which supports said suture gripping means to maintain said gripping means at a home position. 77. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 76 wherein said upward pressure applied to a first side of said slide block means is relaxed to enable said slide block means to exert a downward pressure in response to a predetermined spring tension applied to said slide block. 78. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 72 wherein said fourth means for testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle and suture assembly further includes a spring tension means for controlling the application of said downward force applied to said suture strand. 79. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 78 wherein said means for controlling the application of said downward force is a counterweight positioned to oppose a gravitational force generated by said slide block means and an adjustable spring tension device which adds to said gravitational force. 80. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 79 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond further includes one or more needle v-plate supporting means for supporting armed surgical needles. 81. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 72 wherein said gripping means includes first and second pairs of retractable gripper arms. 82. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 74 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle and suture assembly further includes means for measuring the value of said positive downward force applied to said suture strand by said slide block and said adjustable spring tension device. 83. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 82 wherein said measuring means includes a piezoelectric transducer for measuring the deflection of said needle v-plate supporting means when said positive downward force is applied to said gripped suture strand. 84. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 83 further including a computer control means connected with said transducer means for outputting a test fail signal if said suture becomes dislodged from said needle after application of said downward force. 85. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 84 wherein said computer control means enables the automatic adjustment of said swage station in accordance with measured values obtained from said measuring means. 86. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 85 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing said swage bond further includes means for removing said needle from said universal gripper means upon receipt of said test fail signal from said control means. 87. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 81 wherein said universal gripper means is retracted from an extended position after pull-testing said needle and suture assembly. 88. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 further including a fifth means located at a fourth predetermined location for automatically receiving said needle and suture assembly and for grouping a plurality of needle and suture assemblies as a bundle of needle suture assemblies. 89. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 88, wherein said indexing means conveys said needle and suture assembly to said fourth predetermined location for transferring said needle and suture assembly to said fifth means for receiving said needle suture assembly. 90. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 89 wherein said fifth means for receiving said needle and suture assembly includes a means for stripping said needle suture assembly from said universal gripper. 91. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 90 wherein said fifth means for receiving said needle and suture assembly includes a plurality of buckets for incrementally receiving a bundle of needle suture assemblies. 92. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 91 wherein said plurality of buckets are arranged to rotate below said means for stripping said needle suture assembly from said universal gripper. 93. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 92 wherein said indexing means conveys said universal gripper means in a confronting relation with said means for stripping, said universal gripper means depositing an individual oriented needle and suture assembly into a predetermined one of said buckets . 94. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said indexing means further includes a rotary dial means with a plurality of said universal gripper means and off-set means positioned radially thereon, said rotary dial means rotatable about a central axis for indexing said universal gripper means sequentially from said first, to said second, to said third, and to said fourth predetermined locations. 95. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 94 wherein said indexing means further includes cam dial means includes one or more cam tracks located about a periphery of said rotary dial means, each of said cam tracks defining a retracted portion thereof and an extended portion thereof. 96. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 95 wherein said universal gripper means includes a cam follower means positioned within a respective cam track of said cam dial means for extending and off setting said universal gripper means when said cam follower is positioned within said extended portion of said cam track and for retracting said universal gripper means when said cam follower is positioned within said retracted portion of said cam track, said off-set means and said cam follower providing a compound motion for said universal gripper. 97. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 96 wherein said rotary dial means is rotated in a first direction relative to said cam dial means to move said cam follower of said universal gripper means from said retracted portion to said extended portion, thereby moving said universal gripper means from said first retracted position to said second extended position. 98. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 97 wherein said rotary dial means is rotated in a second direction relative to said cam dial means to move said cam follower of said universal gripper means from said extended portion back to said first retracted portion, thereby moving said universal gripper means from said second extended position back to said first retracted position. 