A novel rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor processes a multiplicity of wafers or a single large wafer, e.g., 200 mm (8 inches), 250 mm (10 inches), 300 mm (12 inches) diameter wafers, using either a single or dual heat source. The wafers or wafer are mounted on a rotatable susceptor supported by a susceptor support. A susceptor position control rotates the wafers during processing and raises and lowers the susceptor to various positions for loading and processing of wafers. A heat controller controls either a single heat source or a dual heat source that heats the wafers to a substantially uniform temperature during processing. A gas flow controller regulates flow of gases into the reaction chamber. Instead of the second heat source, a passive heat distribution is used, in one embodiment, to achieve a substantially uniform temperature throughout the wafers. Further, a novel susceptor is used that includes a silicon carbide cloth enclosed in quartz.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a rapid thermal process reaction chamber; a first rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor having a first surface adapted for mounting a single substrate and a second surface, and a second rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor having a first surface adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon and a second surface wherein only one of said first and second rotatable rapid thermal process susceptors is mounted within the rapid thermal process reaction chamber at a time, and the susceptor is selected based upon whether a single substrate or a plurality of substrates is to be processed and further wherein said one of said first and second rotatable rapid thermal process susceptors mounted within said rapid said thermal process reaction chamber is hereinafter called said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor; and a rapid thermal process radiant heat source mounted outside said rapid thermal process reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said rapid thermal process radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period characteristic of a rapid thermal process reactor so that said rapid thermal process reactor can be used for single substrate batches and a plurality of substrates batches. 2. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 further comprising a heater mounted in said rapid thermal process reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 3. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 2 wherein said heater is a resistance heater. 4. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor is a quartz rotatable susceptor. 5. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein said first surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor has a center and further includes a pocket having a center. 6. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 5 where said center of said pocket is coincident with said center of said first surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 7. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 5 where said center of said pocket is removed from said center of said first surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 8. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 further comprising a passive heat distributor mounted in said rapid thermal process reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 9. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of gas jets mounted in said rapid thermal process reaction chamber. 10. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 further comprising a center gas injection head. 11. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein said rapid thermal process reaction chamber is bounded by a vessel having a water-cooled side wall, a water-cooled bottom wall, and a forced-air-cooled top wall. 12. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 11 wherein said forced-air-cooled top wall further comprises a circular domed-shaped quartz wall. 13. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein said rapid thermal process radiant source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks wherein each lamp bank includes at least one lamp. 14. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 13 wherein said at least one lamp comprises a quartz-halogen lamp. 15. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 14 wherein said quartz-halogen lamp has a tungsten filament. 16. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 13 wherein one of said plurality of lamp banks includes 7 lamps. 