A nethod of verifying sample volume quantifies the fluid volume aspirated and verifies sample uniformity by detecting the presence of foam or clots in the sample. After aspiration, a pressure sensor is used to measure the vacuum needed to hold up the column of fluid in the probe tip. By knowing the geometry of the probe tip, the vacuum can be converted to a sample weight and volume, based on sample densities. Non-ideal conditions, such as foam on the surface of the fluid or a clot in the fluid, result in a sample volume much lighter in the case if foam, or much greater, in the case of a clot, than anticipated. The method also determines the elapsed time of the aspiration. Foamy samples result in aspiration times shorter than normal. Clotted samples result in aspiration times longer than normal.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for verifying an aspirated volume of fluid, comprising: placing a sample probe within a container of a sample fluid, the sample probe having a predetermined geometry and the sample fluid having a predetermined assumed density; drawing a vacuum within the sample probe to cause fluid to be drawn into the sample probe to aspirate the fluid; measuring the pressure within the sample probe during aspiration of the fluid to obtain a pressure profile; determining a time of an initial rise in vacuum of the pressure profile; determining a time of an initial decay in vacuum of the pressure profile; determining a pressure at a predetermined point before the time of the initial rise; determining a pressure at a predetermined point after the time of the initial decay; calculating a pressure differential between the pressure before the initial rise and the pressure after the initial decay; and calculating a volume of fluid within the sample probe from the pressure differential, the predetermined probe geometry and the predetermined assumed sample fluid density. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the calculated volume to a predetermined reference volume. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising providing a signal if the calculated volume differs from the predetermined reference volume by a predetermined amount. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the time of an initial rise further comprises detecting a rate of change of pressure of at least a predetermined value for a predetermined period of time. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the time of an initial decay further comprises detecting a rate of change of pressure of at least a predetermined value for a predetermined period of time. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating an elapsed time between the time of the initial rise and the time of the initial decay; and comparing the elapsed time with a predetermined time reference value. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising providing a signal if the calculated elapsed time differs from the predetermined time reference value by a predetermined amount. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising normalizing the pressure measured within the sample probe to a reference value prior to aspiration of the fluid. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the reference value is 0 psi. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining a time of an initial rise in vacuum of the pressure profile comprises taking a first derivative of the pressure profile. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining a time of an initial decay in vacuum of the pressure profile comprises taking a first derivative of the pressure profile. 