A semiconductor production tool which provides alignment of a wafer at a fab station thereof includes an optical system, a wafer translation mechanism, a field of view translation unit and a unit for determining alignment. The optical system has a field of view which views the wafer. The wafer translation mechanism at least brings the wafer to a predetermined measurement location. In the present invention, the field of view translation unit translates the field of view relative to the wafer so as to view at least a portion of an edge of the wafer during an alignment operation. The unit for determining alignment is operative during the alignment operation and determines the alignment of the wafer from images produced by the optical system when the optical system views at least a portion of the marker.
Claims I claim: 1. A semiconductor production tool which provides alignment of a wafer at a fab station thereof, the wafer including an orientation marker on its edge and the fab station including an optical system having a field of view which views said wafer, and a mechanism for moving said wafer in said tool, said tool comprising: a prealignment unit in operative communication with said moving mechanism, said prealignment unit adapted for receiving a wafer edge and scanning said edge upon its rotation by said moving mechanism, to detect said orientation marker and provide at least one signal indicative of said marker position on said wafer; a control unit in operative communication with said prealignment unit for receiving said at least one signal indicative of said marker position; and a fab station for receiving said wafer, said fab station including an alignment system comprising: means for determining the alignment of said wafer from images of said wafer edge produced by said optical system when said field of view of said optical system views at least a portion of said marker, and means for translating said field of view of said optical system so as to view at least a portion of an edge of said wafer, said translating means in operative communication with said control unit such that said optical system is translated in accordance with said at least one signal. 2. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said means for determining includes pattern recognition means which recognizes the pattern of said marker and alignment means which determines the alignment of said wafer from the output of said pattern recognition means. 3. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said prealignment unit is movable with respect to said fab station. 4. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said prealignment unit comprises a marker detector for detecting the general location of said marker. 5. The tool according to claim 4, wherein said marker detector is an opto-couple detector. 6. The tool according to claim 1, additionally comprising, an illuminator which illuminates a first surface of said wafer edge, which is opposite to a second surface viewed by said optical system, during said alignment operation. 7. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said moving mechanism includes rotation means operative when said wafer is in said pre-alignment unit. 8. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said marker is selected from the group consisting: of a notch and a flat. 9. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said optical system includes a CCD camera. 10. The tool according to claim 1, wherein said fab station includes an optical window whose diameter is larger than the diameter of said wafer through which said optical system views said wafer. 11. A semiconductor production tool which provides alignment of a wafer at a fab station thereof, the wafer including an orientation marker on its edge, the tool comprising: a wafer moving mechanism; a prealignment unit in operative communication with said moving mechanism, said prealignment unit adapted for scanning the edge of said wafer while said wafer is rotated by said moving mechanism, to detect said orientation marker for the placement of said wafer in a predetermined orientation based on the detected location of said marker; an optical system having a field of view which views said wafer, said optical system at least partially within said fab station; said moving mechanism in operative communication with said fab station, that at least brings said wafer in a predetermined orientation to a predetermined measurement location of said fab station; means for translating said field of view relative to said wafer so as to view at least a portion of an edge of said wafer in accordance with said predetermined orientation during an alignment operation and to view non-edge portions of said wafer during a lab-related operation; and means for determining the alignment of said wafer from images produced by said optical system when said optical system views at least a portion of said marker along the edge of said wafer. 12. A method for determining the alignment of a wafer which has an marker thereon, the method comprising the steps of: prealigning a wafer by rotating said wafer, said rotation for scanning said wafer along its edges to detect a location of an orientation marker on said wafer; bringing said wafer to a fab station; holding said wafer at a predetermined measurement location; translating the field of view of an optical system near an edge of said wafer until said optical system views at least a portion of said marker in accordance with said detected location of said orientation marker; acquiring images by said optical system; and determining the alignment of said wafer from those of said images produced when said optical system views said at least a portion of said marker along the edge of said wafer. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein said step of determining includes the step of recognizing the pattern of said marker. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said step of pre-aligning includes scanning the edge of said wafer to detect the general location of said marker. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein said step of translating includes the step of translating the field of view of said optical system to the general location of said marker. 