The present invention provides a reconfigurable modular drive joint that can be used as the basis for building and configuring robotic and automated systems as an interconnected network of individual nodes, with each node representing a single modular joint. Each modular joint can be quickly set up in either a roll, pitch or yaw configuration. A large number of different robot structures can be built using a small number of the modular joints in any of these three configurations. The modules are equipped with quick-connect mechanisms so that a new robot structure can be assembled in a few minutes. A robot or other automated system assembled from such modular joints is a true reconfigurable and modular system. The control system is decentralized. Each modular joint is provided with its own built-in control system and electronics. The modular joints each include a motor and associated sensors. An embedded control system including a power amplifier for the motor, a sensor interface, microprocessor, and communication circuitry are provided. The only external connections to each module is a communication bus between the modules and the host computer and a power supply bus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reconfigurable modular joint comprising: a) a first housing having a drive means, an axis of rotation and opposed ends; b) a first coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link member to one of said opposed ends of said first housing; c) second coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link member to the other of said opposed ends of said first housing; and d) a releasibly attachable third coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link member to said first housing in a plane perpendicular to said axis of rotation. 2. The modular joint according to claim 1 further including a releasibly attachable fourth coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link to said first housing in a plane perpendicular to said axis of rotation and wherein one of the third coupling mechanism and the second coupling mechanism is moveable by said drive means in an arcuate path about said first housing in a plane perpendicular to said axis of rotation. 3. The modular joint according to claim 2 further including a second housing releasibly attached to one of the first, second, third and fourth coupling mechanisms, the second housing having a control circuit connected to at least a microprocessor and releasibly connected to said drive means. 4. The modular joint according to claim 3 wherein said drive means includes at least an actuator and a transmission connected to said actuator. 5. The modular joint according to claim 4 including a sensing means for sensing position and velocity of said actuator, and wherein said sensing means is connected to said microprocessor. 6. The modular joint according to claims 5 wherein said transmission is a harmonic drive. 7. The modular joint according to claim 6 wherein said actuator is a brushless DC servo motor. 8. The modular joint according to claim 2 wherein each of said first, second, third and fourth coupling mechanisms includes a first flange and each link member has a second flange attached to at least one end of each link member and wherein said first flange is adapted to mate with said second flange. 9. The modular joint according to claim 8 further including quick release clamps for clamping said link members to said first flanges. 10. The modular joint according to claim 9 wherein each link member has a second flange at each end thereof. 11. The modular joint according to claim 10 further including a quick release clamp for clamping said third coupling mechanism to said first housing. 12. The modular joint according to claim 11 further including a flange housing having opposed ends and a second flange mounted at one end thereof and a second flange mounted at the other end thereof and wherein said flange housing is releasibly attached to one of the first coupling mechanism and the second coupling mechanism and having an axis of rotation collinear with the axis of rotation of the first housing, and wherein the flange housing is connected to said drive means for rotation about the axis of rotation of the first housing. 13. The modular joint according to claim 12 further including a yoke means and a quick release clamp for clamping said fourth coupling mechanism to said first housing, said yoke means including a first flange adapted to mate with said second flange on a link member, said first flange having an axis of rotation substantially perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said first housing, and said yoke means being movable by said drive means in said arcuate path about said first housing. 14. The modular joint according to claim 13 further including a second housing releasibly attached to one of the first, second, third and fourth coupling mechanisms, the second housing having a control circuit connected to at least a microprocessor and releasibly connected to the drive means. 15. The modular joint according to claim 14 wherein said drive means includes at least an actuator and a transmission connected to said actuator. 16. The modular joint according to claim 15 including a sensing means for sensing position and velocity of said actuator, and wherein said sensing means is connected to said microprocessor. 17. The modular joint according to claim 16 wherein said transmission includes a bearing connected to a shaft of said actuator, said flange housing being rigidly connected to said bearing. 18. A reconfigurable modular robot, comprising: a) plurality of link members; b) at least one modular joint including at least i) a first housing having a drive means, an axis of rotation and opposed ends; ii) a first coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link member to one of said opposed ends of said first housing; and iii) a second coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link member to the other of said opposed ends of said first housing; and iv) a releasibly attachable third coupling mechanism for releasibly coupling a link member to said first housing in a plane perpendicular to said axis of rotation, c) an end-effector connected to one of said second link members driven by one of said modular joints; and d) computer control means for controlling said at least one modular joint. 19. The robot according to claim 18 wherein said drive means is a rotary drive means, and wherein said second coupling mechanism is adapted to releasibly couple said second link member to said first housing in one of two configurations including a first configuration in which said second link member is rotatable by said drive means about said axis and a second configuration in which said second link member is moveable by said drive means in an arcuate path about said first housing in a plane perpendicular to said axis. 20. The robot according to claim 18 wherein said drive means is a translational drive means, and wherein said first coupling mechanism is adapted to releasibly couple said first link member at one end portion of said first housing and said second coupling mechanism is adapted to releasibly couple said second link member at an opposed end portion of said first housing, said translational drive means being connected to a telescoping mechanism attached to said first and second coupling mechanism for translating said first and second link members along said axis towards and away from said first housing. 21. The robot according to claim 18 wherein said first housing is an elongate housing and said drive means is a translational drive means, said second coupling mechanism being adapted to releasibly connect said second link member to said elongate housing and said translational drive means is adapted to translationally move said second housing along said elongate housing parallel to said axis. 22. The robot according to claim 19 wherein said first and second coupling mechanism are adapted to releasibly connect said first and second link members to said first housing in one of three configurations including a roll configuration comprising said first link member being connected at said opposed one end of the first housing and said second link member being connected to said flange at the other end of said first housing; a pitch configuration comprising said first link member being connected at said opposed end of the first housing and the second link member being connected to the second coupling mechanism in the second configuration; and a yaw configuration comprising the first link member connected to said first housing in the configuration comprising said first link member aligned along an axis substantially perpendicular to said axis of rotation, and said second link member being connected to the second coupling mechanism in the second configuration. 23. The robot according to claims 22 wherein said drive means includes at least a control circuit, and a microprocessor located in said first housing and connected to said control circuit for controlling movement of said modular joint. 24. The robot according to claims 23 wherein said first link member is a second housing, and wherein said drive means includes at least a control circuit located in said second housing, and said computer control means includes at least a microprocessor located in said second housing and connected to said control circuit for controlling movement of said modular joint. 25. The robot according to claims 24 including a sensing means for sensing position and velocity of said drive means, and wherein said sensing means is connected to said microprocessor. 26. The robot according to claims 25 wherein said second link member includes a third housing and wherein said second link member connected to the second coupling mechanism on said at least one modular joint comprises a first link member connected to a first coupling mechanism on another modular joint or is connected to said end-effector. 27. The robot according to claims 26 wherein said drive means includes at least an actuator and a transmission connected to said actuator, said actuator and transmission being located in said first housing. 28. The robot according to claims 26 wherein said computer control means includes at least a computer connected to each microprocessor in the modular joints. 29. The robot according to claim 28 wherein the transmission is a harmonic drive. 30. The robot according to claims 28 wherein the actuator is a brushless DC servo motor. 