A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim includes a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist. The robot is moveable with at least three degrees of freedom along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths. A central processing unit selectively executes any one of the plurality of paths stored in memory. A bead mounting tool is attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot. The tool is orientatable with at least three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths. A workpiece support positions the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and positions the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. A signal is generated and sent to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire combination to be assembled. The central processing unit selects one of the plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size combination. The robot includes one or more sensors for measuring load on the articulated joint and wrist during a tire mounting cycle. The control program includes a sensor monitoring function for stopping movement of the tool in response to a load greater than a predetermined value. A clamp member prevents rotation of the tire with respect to the rim as the tool works a bead of the tire over the rim.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist, the robot moveable with at least three degrees of freedom along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths; a central processing unit for selectively executing any one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths storable in memory; a bead mounting tool attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot, the tool orientatable with at least three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths; a workpiece support for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim; and means for generating a signal to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire, wherein the central processing unit selects one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: the robot including at least one sensor for measuring load on the joint and wrist during a tire mounting cycle; and the program including a sensor monitoring function for stopping movement of the bead mounting tool in response to a load greater than a predetermined value. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a clamp member for preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: the bead mounting tool moveable around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim and moveable around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: the first predetermined path moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the periphery of the rim and the second predetermined path moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 6. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: moving a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist with at least three degrees of freedom along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths; selectively executing any one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths storable in memory with a central processing unit; orientating a bead mounting tool attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot with at least three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths; positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support; and generating a signal to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire, wherein the central processing unit selects one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the steps of: measuring a load on the joint and wrist of the robot with at least one sensor during a tire mounting cycle; and monitoring the at least one sensor during the tire mounting cycle to stop movement of the bead mounting tool in response to a sensed load greater than a predetermined value. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim with a tire-engaging clamp, as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising the steps of: moving the bead mounting tool around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim; and moving the bead mounting tool around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the steps of: moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the entire periphery of the rim along the first predetermined path; and moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction along the second predetermined path in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 11. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: means for moving with at least three degrees of freedom along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths, the moving means including a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist; means for selectively executing any one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths storable in memory with a central processing unit; means for orientating a bead mounting tool attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot with at least three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths; means for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support; and means for generating a signal to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire, wherein the central processing unit selects one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: means for measuring a load on the joint and wrist of the robot with at least one sensor during a tire mounting cycle; and means for monitoring the at least one sensor during the tire mounting cycle to stop movement of the bead mounting tool in response to a sensed load greater than a predetermined value. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: means for preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim with a tire-engaging clamp, as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: the moving means moving the bead mounting tool around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim; and the moving means moving the bead mounting tool around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising: the moving means moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the entire periphery of the rim along the first predetermined path; and the moving means moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction along the second predetermined path in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 16. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist, the robot moveable along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths; a central processing unit for selectively executing any one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths storable in memory; a bead mounting tool attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot, the tool orientatable independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths; a workpiece support for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim; and means for generating a signal to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire, wherein the central processing unit selects one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: the robot including at least one sensor for measuring load on the joint and wrist during a tire mounting cycle; and the program including a sensor monitoring function for stopping movement of the bead mounting tool in response to a load greater than a predetermined value. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: a clamp member for preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: the bead mounting tool moveable around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim and moveable around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising: the first predetermined path moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the periphery of the rim and the second predetermined path moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 21. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: moving a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths; selectively executing any one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths storable in memory with a central processing unit; orientating a bead mounting tool attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths; positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support; and generating a signal to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire, wherein the central processing unit selects one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the steps of: measuring a load on the joint and wrist of the robot with at least one sensor during a tire mounting cycle; and monitoring the at least one sensor during the tire mounting cycle to stop movement of the bead mounting tool in response to a sensed load greater than a predetermined value. 23. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of: preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim with a tire-engaging clamp, as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 24. The method of claim 21 further comprising the steps of: moving the bead mounting tool around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim; and moving the bead mounting tool around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising the steps of: moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the entire periphery of the rim along the first predetermined path; and moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction along the second predetermined path in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 26. In a tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the improvement comprising: a robot for controlled programmable movement, the robot having an arm with a wrist at one end; and a bead-mounting tool connectible to the wrist, the tool having a rim engaging portion and a tire engaging portion for forcing the bead of the tire over the rim in response to controlled programmable movement of the robot with respect to the rim and tire. 27. The improvement of claim 26 further comprising: the tool being rotatable by the wrist about a longitudinal axis of the tool, as the tool is carried by the robot while mounting the tire to the rim. 