Methods and apparatus are provided for determining the duty cycle, average amperage, and/or the number of arc starts during a welding operation. The apparatus comprises first and second circuits, the first circuit being a CPU control circuit, and the second circuit being an arc time sensor circuit which is programmed to measure amperage, welding wire feed speed and preferably gas flow rates while welding. A ratio of the cumulative welding time during the audit to the total on-time provides a measurement of the efficiency of the welding arc. The welding deposition efficiency may then be calculated using the average amperage and welding duty cycle as measured and calculated by the apparatus. The number of arc starts where the arc on-time is in excess of one second may also provide a useable measurement in giving secondary information on the overall efficiency of the welding operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A performance arc time measurement apparatus comprising: a) a control circuit comprising a processor, a RAM, and EPROM, and ACIA, an RS232 Serial Data Port, and a clock; b) an arc time sensor circuit electrically connected to the first circuit, the arc time sensor circuit comprising an analog to digital converter, one or more control buttons, a power switch, and a human-readable display, a battery charger circuit, and a sensor input circuits; c) an arc time measuring means electrically connected to said arc time sensor; and d) an electrically conducting wire or cable connected at one end to the arc time measuring means, and having a second end adapted to connect electronically to a power source of a welding device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the control circuit and the arc time sensor circuit are both contained in a single metal box. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the arc time measuring means comprises a DC shunt. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 which further includes a jack for calibration of the control circuit and the arc time sensor circuit. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the arc time measuring means comprises a Hall effect sensor. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 which further includes a battery charger circuit electronically connected to the arc time sensor circuit. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the arc time sensor circuit is programmed to measure a feature selected from the group consisting of amperage, consumable wire feed speed, gas flow rates while welding, or a combination of one or more of these features. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the human-readable display is an LCD digital alpha/numeric display. 9. A method of performance arc time measurement comprising: a) electronically connecting a performance arc time measurement apparatus of claim 1 on each of one or more arc welding power sources; and b) measuring the average amperages of the arc welding power source using the performance arc time measurement apparatus of claim 1. 10. A method in accordance with claim 9 including the step of: c) calculating the average duty cycle using the performance arc time measurement apparatus of claim 1. 11. A method in accordance with claim 10 including the step of: d) measuring consumable feed speeds using the performance arc time measurement apparatus of claim 1. 12. A method in accordance with claim 11 including the step of: e) calculating welding efficiency of a welder using the power source. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12 including the step of: f) calculating welding deposition rates of a welder using the power source. 14. A method in accordance with claim 13 including the step of: g) based on data gathered and using a software program, calculating welding costs per linear foot for a single pass weld or determining welding cost per piece manufactured. 15. A method in accordance with claim 14 including the step of: h) calculating annual savings for a manufacturing facility using the calculated costs of step g). 16. A method of performance arc time measurement comprising: a) installing a performance arc time measurement apparatus of claim 1 on each of one or more arc welding power sources in a manufacturing facility; b) measuring the average amperages using the performance arc time measurement apparatus; c) calculating the average duty cycle using the performance arc time measurement apparatus; d) measuring consumable wire feed speeds using the performance arc time measurement apparatus; e) calculating welding efficiency of a welder using the power source; f) calculating welding deposition rates of a welder using the power source; g) based on data gathered and using a software program, calculating welding costs per linear foot for a single pass weld, or determining welding cost per piece manufactured; h) calculating annual savings for the manufacturing facility using the welding costs of step g); and i) benchmarking productivity and developing an improvement strategy based on welding management principles and the data gathered in steps b) through h). 