A system (10) for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes (160, 260, 460) includes a work cell (12) having a plurality of processing stations (14) for processing wafers, and at least one processing/cleaning station (30, 130, 230, 430) for receiving and delivering wafers to and from a wafer cassette (160, 260, 460), a transfer mechanism (16) for moving the wafers between the plurality of processing stations (14) and the cleaning station (30). The cleaning station (30, 130, 230, 430) may have an exterior door (32, 132, 232, 432), an exhaust (34, 134, 234, 434), an interior door (40, 140, 240, 440), a plurality of gas nozzles (166, 266, 466) for delivering a sweeping gas over the wafer cassette (160, 260, 460). A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes (160, 260, 460) includes delivering a wafer cassette (160, 260, 460) to a first station (30, 130, 230, 430) of a work cell (12), cleaning the wafer cassette (160, 260, 460), and loading the cassette (160, 260, 460) with wafers, and the step of cleaning the wafer cassette may include the substeps of applying a pressurized stream of gas against at least one surface of the wafer cassette (160, 260, 460). The cleaning process can also be done with a loaded cassette (160, 260, 460) that is unloaded before cleaning.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes comprising the steps of: providing a wafer cassette having a plurality of parallel slots and containing wafers in said slots; delivering said wafer cassette containing wafers to a first station of a work cell; removing the wafers from the wafer cassette for processing; cleaning the wafer cassette after removal of all of the wafers from the wafer cassette; and wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of: applying a separate pressurized stream of gas aligned with each of said slots along each of said slots of at least one surface of the wafer cassette. 2. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes comprising the steps of: delivering a wafer cassette containing wafers to a first station of a work cell; removing the wafers from the wafer cassette for processing; cleaning the wafer cassette after removal of all of the wafers from the wafer cassette; and wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of: applying a pressurized stream of gas against at least one surface of the wafer cassette; wherein the step of delivering a wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an exterior door of the first station and inserting the wafer cassette containing the wafers. 3. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes comprising the steps of: delivering a wafer cassette containing wafers to a first station of a work cell; removing the wafers from the wafer cassette for processing; cleaning the wafer cassette after removal of all of the wafers from the wafer cassette; and wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of: applying a pressurized stream of gas against at least one surface of the wafer cassette; wherein the step of removing the wafers from the wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an interior door of the first station and using a wafer transport mechanism to remove the wafers from the wafer cassette. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of providing a pulsed flow of a pressurized gas to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the steps of: providing a pulsed flow of a pressurized gas to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette; and applying a negative pressure to an interior of the first station to evacuate the gas and any contaminates. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the steps of: monitoring particles removed from the wafer cassette with an in situ particle monitor; providing a pulsed flow of a pressurized gas to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette until the in situ particle monitor indicates an absence of particles in the pressurized gas that has contacted the wafer cassette; and applying a negative pressure to an interior of the first station to evacuate the gas and any contaminates. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of providing a pulsed flow of pressurized nitrogen to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette. 8. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes comprising the steps of: delivering a wafer cassette containing wafers to a first station of a work cell; removing the wafers from the wafer cassette for processing; cleaning the wafer cassette after removal of all of the wafers from the wafer cassette; and wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of: applying a pressurized stream of gas against at least one surface of the wafer cassette; wherein: the step of delivering a wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an exterior door of the first station and inserting the wafer cassette containing the wafers; the step of removing the wafers from the wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an interior door of the first station and using a wafer transport mechanism to remove the wafers from the wafer cassette; and the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of providing a pulsed flow of a pressurized gas to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette. 9. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer cassettes comprising the steps of: delivering a wafer cassette containing wafers to a first station of a work cell; removing the wafers from the wafer cassette for processing; cleaning the wafer cassette after removal of all of the wafers from the wafer cassette; and wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of: applying a pressurized stream of gas against at least one surface of the wafer cassette; wherein: the step of delivering a wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an exterior door of the first station and inserting the wafer cassette containing the wafers; the step of removing the wafers from the wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an interior door of the first station and using a wafer transport mechanism to remove the wafers from the wafer cassette; the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of providing a pulsed flow of a pressurized gas to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette and applying a negative pressure to an interior of the first station to evacuate the gas and any contaminates. 10. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer-handling implements in a work cell comprising the steps of: receiving an empty wafer cassette having a plurality of parallel slots in a first work station of the work cell; cleaning the wafer cassette; and delivering wafers to the wafer cassette and along said slots; wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of delivering a separate stream of pressurized sweeping gas, each, each said stream aligned with one of said slots to impact the wafer cassette to remove contaminants. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette further comprises providing the pressurized sweeping gas until an in situ particle monitor detects the absence of particles in the sweeping gas after the sweeping gas impacts the wafer cassette. 12. A method for processing wafers and cleaning wafer-handling implements in a work cell comprising the steps of: receiving an empty wafer cassette in a first work station of the work cell; cleaning the wafer cassette; delivering wafers to the wafer cassette; and wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of delivering a pressurized sweeping gas to the first station to impact the wafer cassette to remove contaminants; wherein the step of delivering wafers to the wafer cassette comprises the steps of opening an interior door of the first station and using a wafer transport mechanism to deliver the wafers to the wafer cassette. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of cleaning the wafer cassette comprises the step of providing a pulsed flow of a pressurized gas to a plurality of nozzles in the first station that are directed against the wafer cassette. 