A multiple stage wet processing platform includes a sealable enclosure, at least two processing modules positioned within the enclosure, at least one of them including a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening, at least two processing vessels within the housing, and an intra-module robot within the housing and including a wafer support member, the intra-module robot moveable to a first position in which the support is disposed in a first one of the processing vessels and a second position in which the support is disposed in a second one of the processing vessels. An inter-module robot is positioned within the enclosure and is moveable between a first position adjacent to a first one of the modules and a second position adjacent to a second one of the modules.
Claims We claim: 1. A multiple stage wet processing platform comprising: a sealable enclosure; at least two processing modules positioned within the enclosure, each module including; a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening, at least two processing vessels within the housing, and an intra-module robot within the housing and including a support member, the intra-module robot moveable to a first position in which the support member is disposed in a first one of the processing vessels and a second position in which the support member is disposed in a second one of the processing vessels; and an inter-module robot moveable between a first position adjacent to a first one of the modules and a second position adjacent to a second one of the modules. 2. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 1 wherein the process modules are self-terminating. 3. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 1 wherein, in each process module, one of the process vessels is fluidly coupled to a chemical source and the other one of the process vessels is fluidly coupled to a source of rinse fluid. 4. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 1 wherein, in each process module, one of the process vessels is fluid coupled to a chemical source and the other one of the process vessels is fluidly coupled to a source of fluid selected to neutralize the type of chemical contained in the chemical source. 5. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 1 further including a drying module, the drying module including: a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening; and a drying vessel within the housing, the drying vessel fluidly coupled to a source of drying fluid. 6. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 5 wherein the drying vessel is fluidly coupled to a source of rinsing fluid. 7. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 6 wherein the drying vessel is fluidly coupled to a source of treatment chemical. 8. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 5 wherein the inter-module robot is further moveable to a third position adjacent to the drying module. 9. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 1 wherein each intra-module robot is cooperatively associated with the inter-module robot to transfer objects between the intra-module robots and the inter-module robot. 10. A multiple stage wet processing platform comprising: a sealable enclosure; a first processing module positioned within the enclosure, the first processing module including; a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening, at least two processing vessels within the housing, and an intra-module robot within the housing and including a wafer support member, the intra-module robot moveable to a first position in which the support is disposed in a first one of the processing vessels and a second position in which the support is disposed in a second one of the processing vessels; a second processing module positioned within the enclosure, the second processing module including at least one process vessel; and an inter-module robot moveable between a first position adjacent to a first one of the modules and a second position adjacent to a second one of the modules. 11. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10 wherein: the process vessel in the second module includes a source of drying vapor fluidly coupled thereto. 12. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 11 wherein the process vessel in the second module further includes a source of rinsing fluid fluidly coupled thereto. 13. The multiple stage wet process platform of claim 10 wherein the first module is self-terminating. 14. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10 wherein, in the first module, a first one of the processing vessels is fluidly coupled to a chemical source, and a second one of the processing vessels is fluidly coupled to a source of fluid selected to neutralize the type of chemical contained at the chemical source. 15. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10 wherein the intra-module robot is cooperatively associated with the inter-module robot to transfer objects between the intra-module robot and the inter-module robot. 16. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10, further including: a third processing module positioned within the enclosure, the third processing module including; a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening, at least two processing vessels within the housing, and an intra-module robot within the housing and including a wafer support member, the intra-module robot moveable to a first position in which the support is disposed in a first one of the processing vessels and a second position in which the support is disposed in a second one of the processing vessels, wherein each of the intra-module robots are cooperatively associated with the inter-module robot to transfer objects between the intra-module robots and the inter-module robot. 17. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 16 wherein the first processing module is a heated acid module, the second processing module is a core clean module, and the second processing module is a surface passivation module. 18. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10 wherein the modules are arranged vertically. 19. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10 wherein the modules are arranged to at least partially surround the inter-module robot. 20. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10, wherein the intra-module robot includes a vessel lid moveable by the robot into a first position covering the first processing vessel and a second position covering the second processing vessel. 21. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10, further including: a port in the enclosure: a plurality of buffer storage shelves within the enclosure; and a buffer robot moveable between the port and the plurality of storage shelves. 22. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 21 wherein at least a portion of the buffer storage shelves are vertically arranged on a tower. 23. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 21 wherein at least a portion of the buffer storage shelves are circumferentially spaced around the buffer robot. 24. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 21 wherein the buffer storage shelves are vertically arranged on towers spaced circumferentially around the buffer robot. 25. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10 wherein the intra-module robot includes a sealed housing, at least one motor within the sealed housing, an inductive receiver within the sealed housing, and an inductive transmitter external to the sealed housing and positioned remotely of the sealed housing. 26. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 10, further including a plurality of expansion modules, the expansion modules attachable to the platform to increase the capacity of the platform. 27. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 26 wherein, when the expansion modules are attached to the platform, the intermodule robot is further moveable between a position adjacent to a first one of the expansion modules and a position adjacent to a second one of the expansion modules. 28. The multiple stage wet processing platform of claim 27 wherein the modules are arranged vertically, wherein the expansion modules are attachable to the platform in a vertical arrangement, and wherein when the expansion modules are attached to the platform the inter-module robot is disposed between the modules and the expansion modules. 29. A wet processing chamber including: a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening, least two processing vessels within the housing, and an intra-module robot within the housing and including a support member and a lid, the intra-module robot moveable to a first position in which the support member is disposed in a first one of the processing vessels and in which the lid covers the first one of the processing vessels, and a second position in which the support member is disposed in a second one of the processing vessels and the lid covers the second one of the processing vessels. 30. A processing chamber including: a housing having an opening and a door moveable into position covering the opening, at least two processing vessels within the housing, and an intra-module automation system within the housing, the intra-module robot moveable to a first position in which the support member is disposed in a first one of the processing vessels, and a second position in which the support member is disposed in a second one of the processing vessels, the automation system including, an object support member, a sealed robot housing coupled to the support member, the sealed housing containing at least one motor and an inductive receiver electrically coupled to the motor; an inductive transmitter external to the sealed robot housing and positioned remotely of the sealed robot housing, the motor responsive to inductive signals transmitted from the transmitter to the receiver to activate the intra-module automation. 