A method for automatically forming armed surgical needles and for automatically packaging the same in a packaging tray, the automatic forming and packaging operating under control of a control computer, each armed surgical needle including a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein for attachment of a definite length suture material thereof. The method comprises the steps of sorting and depositing a plurality of needles on an indexing conveyor; enabling a robot gripper device to sequentially pick up the needles and place a picked needle in a precision conveyor device for automatic sequential conveyance to a first station; utilizing a first indexing device for sequentially indexing the needle from the first station to a second station to form the armed needle, the first indexing device being elevated in height; at the second station, automatically inserting a free end of a suture strand into the suture receiving opening of the needle, swaging the needle about the free end of the suture, and cutting the suture strand to a predetermined definite length to form the armed needle. The formed armed needle is then sequentially inserted into a respective single package tray indexed at a subsequent station that has been oriented in height with respect to the first indexing device in accordance with the size of the needle. At a further subsequent station the tray and parked armed needle therein is subject to at least one rapid winding operation to wind the suture around a peripheral channel of the tray.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for automatically forming armed surgical needles and for automatically packaging the same in a packaging tray, said automatic forming and packaging operations taking place in a needle-suture assembly and packaging machine operating under control of a control computer, each said armed surgical needle comprising a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed in a barrel end of said needle for attachment of a definite length suture material thereto at said needle-suture assembly machine, said method comprising the steps of: (a) singulating a plurality of needles and depositing them on an indexing conveyor in random un-oriented positions; (b) determining an acceptable needle location for picking up a needle, said acceptable needle location including a barrel end of said needle; (c) enabling a robot gripper means to sequentially pick up said needles at said barrel end and place a said picked needle in a precision conveyor device for automatic sequential conveyance to a first station, said needle being conveyed in an oriented position; (d) utilizing a first indexing device for sequentially indexing said needle in said oriented position from said first station to a second station to form said armed needle, said first indexing device being elevated in height for movement along a first horizontal axis; (e) at said second station, automatically inserting a free end of an indefinite length suture strand into said suture receiving opening of said needle, swaging the needle about said free end of said suture, and cutting said indefinite length suture strand to a predetermined definite length to form said armed needle; (f) indexing said first indexing device to a subsequent station and sequentially inserting a single formed armed needle from said second station to a respective single packaging tray at said subsequent station; and, (g) prior to inserting said armed needle in said packaging tray, the step of utilizing a second indexing device for sequentially indexing a said single packaging tray at said subsequent station for receiving a respective single armed needle, an elevation of said second indexing device being adjusted relative to the first horizontal axis so as to accommodate the transferring of differently sized surgical needles into said tray without substantially modifying any components of the machine. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further including the step of enabling said control computer to provide needle size and suture length parameters to said automatic needle-suture assembly and packaging machine for automatically height adjusting said second indexing device in accordance with the needle size parameters. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2, further including the step of determining an orientation of said singulated needle deposited upon said indexing means. 4. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the step e) of automatically inserting a free end of an indefinite length suture strand into said suture receiving opening at said second station further comprises the steps of: feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to a drawing axis for drawing thereof; enabling a first reciprocating suture drawing means to grip said indefinite length suture strand and draw said indefinite length strand along said drawing axis for insertion of a suture tip within said suture-receiving opening of said needle; enabling a second reciprocating suture drawing means to grip said indefinite length suture material at a predetermined position along said drawing axis and located below a cutting position, said second suture drawing means gripping said indefinite length suture after said first gripping means inserts said suture tip into said needle; and cutting said indefinite length suture with a cutting device along said drawing axis at said cutting position in accordance with the suture length parameters provided. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first and second suture drawing means further includes retractable gripping elements adapted for movement in a first engaged position gripping said suture strand, and a second retracted position, said control computer controlling simultaneous reciprocation of said first and second suture drawing means wherein said first suture drawing means traverses the drawing axis to said suture insertion position with said gripping elements in said suture engaged position, while said second suture drawing means simultaneously traverses said drawing axis with the gripping elements in said retracted position to below said cutting position. 6. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said step (e) of swaging said indefinite length suture to said suture receiving opening comprises the steps of indexing said extendable gripper means to position said suture receiving end of said surgical needle at a swage die opening substantially formed between adjacently positioned first and second swaging dies, said first swaging die being adjustably fixed in position and said second swaging die being movable relative to said first die. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, further including the steps of retracting said second swage die to a position for enabling placement of said suture receiving opening of said needle substantially within said swage die opening and, extending said second swage die back into an engagement position for gripping the suture receiving end of a needle prior to suture insertion and swaging thereof. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7, further including the step of supplying air pressure to move said second swaging die toward said first swaging die to swage said needle gripped therebetween. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8, further including the step of adjusting the position of said first swaging die relative to said second swaging die to adjust the amount of swage die travel applied to said surgical needle. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said first swaging die includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof and a wedge assembly positioned transverse to said wedge follower and adapted for transverse movement relative thereto, said adjusting step further including the step of moving said wedge assembly a predefined distance in accordance with said needle and suture size parameters to laterally move said wedge follower and said first swaging die into a fixed position prior to swaging. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first indexing device includes a first rotatable indexing dial having one or more extendable gripper means peripherally spaced apart for simultaneous registration at each said first, second, and subsequent stations, each gripper means adapted for engaging a said needle in an oriented position for processing at each said first, second and subsequent stations, said method further comprising the step of simultaneously extending each gripper means located on said indexing dial to each of said first, second and subsequent stations during an indexing cycle, whereby oriented needles are simultaneously transferred from said precision conveyor to a said gripper means extended at said first station, a gripper means carrying a said oriented needle is extended at said second station to form a said armed needle, and, a gripper means holding a said armed needle is extended at said subsequent station for inserting said armed needle into said packaging tray registered thereat during said single indexing cycle. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said gripper means includes a plurality of pins for engaging said surgical needle, one of said plurality of pins capable of moving between needle engaging and needle relaxing positions, wherein said step of extending said gripper during said indexing cycle further comprising the step of moving said movable pin to said needle relaxing position to facilitate simultaneous needle transfer to said gripper at said first station, armed needle assembly at said second station, and armed needle insertion into a packaging tray at said subsequent station. 13. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising prior to step (f), the step of indexing said formed armed needle to a pull-test station for pull testing each needle, said pull-testing step comprising the steps of: extending said gripper means to a support device for supporting said formed armed needle; extending a suture pushing means for orienting said suture portion of said armed needle to a predetermined suture-gripping location; gripping said associated suture of said armed needle with a suture gripping means, said suture gripping means including means for applying a force of predetermined value to said suture portion, said force being of a value sufficient not to break a needle-suture swage bond; applying said force of predetermined value to said suture while being gripped; measuring said force applied to said suture; and determining if said force is within acceptable limits; and performing step (f) if said needle-suture swage bond is not broken. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said force causes said needle-suture bond to be broken, said method including the step of enabling a needle stripper to remove said needle from said support device. 15. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said second indexing means includes a second rotatable indexing dial having a plurality of tool nests peripherally spaced apart on said dial and each for supporting a said single package tray, said indexing dial adapted for indexed advancement for simultaneously registering each said tool nest at a plurality of workstations stationarily arranged proximate said second indexing dial, said method further comprising: (a) at a first workstation, mounting an empty said tray on a support surface located on said at least one tool nest; (b) at a second workstation, imparting a predetermined angular displacement to said tray and support surface on said at least one tool nest mounting said tray to facilitate subsequent insertion of a surgical needle into said tray; (c) at said third workstation, positioning said gripper means engaging a said armed surgical needle in operative relationship opposite said support surface at a predetermined angular displacement relative thereto; (d) at a said fourth workstation, imparting a predetermined rotational movement to the tray which has a surgical needle retained therein with an attached suture having a portion extending outwardly and downwardly from said tray; (e) at a fifth workstation, imparting rapid rotational movement to said previously rotated tray so as to completely wind said depending suture portion into the confines of said tray; (f) at a sixth workstation applying a cover to a tray containing a surgical needle and attached suture, said tray being positioned on a support surface located on said at least one tool nest; and (g) at a seventh workstation, enabling motive means for engaging said suture package located on the support surface of said at least one tool nest; a compartmented tray having a plurality of compartments being positionable at said workstation below said motive means, said motive means being actuable to disengage said suture package from said support surface and convey said suture package into a respective said compartment. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said step of mounting an empty said tray on said support surface includes the steps of: stacking a supply of said empty trays; arranging a rotary plate beneath said tray stack, said rotary plate being adapted to receive an individual one of said trays from the bottom of said stack; indexing said rotary plate forwardly at redetermined angular increments; and, engaging said tray on said rotary plate and transferring said tray to the support surface on said one tool nest. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said rotary plate is in communication with a vacuum-generating source for imparting a vacuum to the upper surface of said rotary plate to retain said tray thereon during at least the indexing advance of said rotary plate. 18. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said first workstation includes pivotable arm structure having tray-engaging means for lifting said tray from said rotary plate and transferring said tray to the support surface on said at least one tool nest indexed thereat. 19. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein said rotary plate communicates with a vacuum-generating source for imparting a vacuum thereto for retaining said tray on said plate, said vacuum being released upon said tray-engaging means contacting said tray, said tray-engaging means including mechanical gripper means for gripping said tray and transporting said tray to the support surface on said at least one tool nest. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein upon said tray-engaging means mounting said tray on the support surface of said at least one tool nest, said mechanical gripper releases its grip on said tray and a vacuum is concurrently applied to the support surface of said at least one tool nest so as to retain said tray thereon. 21. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said robotic arm structure comprises a cam-controlled robotic pivot arm adapted to swing between a vertical orientation to a horizontal and forward motion for transferring said tray from said rotary plate to said support surface on said at least one tool nest. 22. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for imparting said angular displacement in said imparting step comprises structure for engageable contact with said support surface. 23. The method as claimed in claim 22, wherein said structure comprises a slidable element having contact means for engaging said support surface, and pivot arm means for imparting movement to said contact means towards said support surface to impart said angular displacement thereto. 24. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein said angular displacement of said tray and support surface on said at least one tool nest subtends an angle of about 16.5.degree. with a horizontal axis of said tray. 25. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein adjusting an elevation of said second indexing device includes adjusting the elevation of said second rotatable indexing dial relative to said gripper means mounted on said first indexing dial. 26. The method as claimed in claim 25, wherein said packaging machine includes servo driven lifting means being connected to said second indexing dial for adjusting the elevation thereof. 27. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein suture clamping means are located proximate said at least one tool nest, said suture method further comprising activating said clamping means to clampingly engage a portion of a suture attached to a surgical needle retained in a tray mounted on said support surface and depending therefrom at said third workstation while transferring said armed needle to said tray, said suture clamping means including a first vacuum-generating means for imparting a tension to said depending suture portion, and second vacuum-generating means for imparting tension to the trailing end of said depending suture portion. 28. The method as claimed in claim 27, further including de-activating said suture clamping means at said third workstation of said packaging machine to release said suture portion upon said tool nest having advanced towards a subsequent fourth workstation. 29. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein said first and second vacuum-generating means maintain tension on said depending suture portion during advance of said tool nest mounting said needle-containing tray towards a subsequent workstation. 30. The method as claimed in claim 29, wherein said second vacuum-generating means continually imparts tension to the trailing end of said depending suture portion until the latter is wound into said tray. 31. The method as claimed in claim 15, further including the step of utilizing rotation-imparting means at said fourth workstation for rotating said tray so as to assume an orientation which is 180.degree. inverted relative to the initial orientation of said tray on said at least one tool nest. 32. The method as claimed in claim 31, wherein said rotation-imparting means comprises a winder head reciprocable towards and away from said tray on the support surface of said at least one tool nest, said winder head being engageable with said support surface in the forwardly extended position of the winder head; and drive means for imparting rotation to said winder head for rotating said tray. 33. The method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the support surface on said at least one tool nest is fastened to a rotatable shaft extending through said at least one tool nest; means normally securing said shaft against relative rotation, said means releasing said shaft for axial movement and rotation to facilitate said winder head imparting the rotational movement to said tray and support surface. 34. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said rapid rotation imparting means at said fifth workstation comprises a winder head structure engage able with said tray and support surface for winding the extending portion of the suture into said tray. 35. The method as claimed in claim 34, wherein said winder head structure at said second workstation comprises protruding means which are engageable with surface structure on said tray so as to facilitate winding of said depending suture portion into a peripheral channel formed in said tray. 36. The method as claimed in claim 35, wherein said winder head structure at said fifth workstation is rapidly rotated a predetermined number of times in accordance with the suture length parameters downloaded from said computer. 37. The method as claimed in claim 36, wherein the support surface on said at least one tool nest is fastened to a rotatable shaft extending through said at least one tool nest; means normally securing said shaft against relative rotation, said means releasing said shaft for axial movement and rotation to facilitate said winder head imparting the rotational movement to said tray and support surface. 38. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein suture tensioning means imparts tension to the depending suture portion prior to and during the winding of the suture into said tray at said fourth and fifth workstations. 39. The method as claimed in claim 38, wherein said suture tensioning means comprises a plurality of vacuum nozzles. 40. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein further vacuum tensioning means impart tension to a trailing end of said depending suture portion until said suture is completely wound into said tray. 41. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said step of applying a cover to said tray at said sixth workstation includes the steps of: stacking a supply of said covers; arranging a rotary plate beneath said tray stack, said rotary plate being adapted to receive an individual one of said covers from the bottom of said cover stack, indexing said rotary plate forwardly at predetermined angular increments; and engaging said cover on said rotary plate and transferring said cover for application to the tray which is mounted on the support surface of said at least one tool nest. 42. The method as claimed in claim 41, wherein said cover stacking means at said sixth workstation comprises an open-bottomed chute having a vertical stack of said covers arranged therein, said rotary plate being horizontally oriented and extending closely below the bottom of said chute so as to receive the bottommost cover therefrom on an upper surface of said rotary plate. 43. The method as claimed in claim 42, wherein said rotary plate is in communication with a vacuum-generating source for imparting a vacuum to the upper surface of said rotary plate so as to retain said cover thereon during at least the indexing advance of said rotary plate. 44. The method as claimed in claim 43, wherein said motive means comprises pivotable arm structure having cover-engaging means for lifting said cover from said rotary plate and transferring said cover for application onto the tray on the support surface of said at least one tool nest. 45. The method as claimed in claim 44, wherein said rotary plate communicates with a vacuum-generating source for imparting a vacuum thereto for retaining said cover on said plate, said vacuum being released upon said cover-engaging means contacting said cover, and a vacuum in said cover-engaging means retaining said cover thereon to facilitate transporting said cover for application to the tray on the support surface of said at least one tool nest. 46. The method as claimed in claim 45, further including the step of applying said cover to said tray retained on the support surface of said at least one tool nest, and, upon application of said cover to said tray, the step of releasing said vacuum in said cover-engaging means while vacuum is being applied to the support surface of said at least one tool nest so as to retain said formed suture package in vacuum engagement thereon. 47. The method as claimed in claim 46, wherein said motive means comprises a cam-controlled robotic pivot arm adapted to swing between a vertical orientation to a horizontal and forward motion for transporting said cover from said rotary plate to said tray on the support surface of said at least one tool nest. 48. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said plurality of compartments at said seventh workstation are located in a linear array on said compartmented tray, said motive means introducing a predetermined quantity of said suture packages into each said compartment; and means for indexing said compartmented tray responsive to a compartment being filled with said predetermined quantity of suture packages so as to align an adjacent said compartment of said compartmented tray for the conveyance thereto of suture packages by said motive means. 49. The method as claimed in claim 48, wherein drive means replaces the compartmented tray having the compartments thereof filled with said suture packages with a second empty compartmented tray. 50. The method as claimed in claim 49, wherein said drive means shifts said second compartmented tray means laterally perpendicularly to a longitudinal indexing axis for said compartmented tray. 51. The method as claimed in claim 50, wherein said motive means comprise a cam-controlled pivot arm. 52. The method as claimed in claim 51, wherein drive means activate said pivot arm between an elevated horizontal orientation for movement towards and away from said suture package to a downwardly pivoted position above a respective one of the compartments of said compartmented tray means. 53. The method as claimed in claim 52, wherein an outer end of said pivot arm includes a mechanical gripper. 54. The method as claimed in claim 53, further including the step of actuating said mechanical gripper to grip the suture package on the support surface on said at least one tool nest to transfer the suture package to said pivot arm from said support surface while releasing a vacuum in said tool nest, pivoting said pivot arm downwardly over one said compartment and releasing the grip of said mechanical gripper to release the suture package into a compartment located therebelow. 55. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein a rejected suture package is retained on the support surface of said at least one tool nest for conveyance to a further workstation, and means at said further workstation being provided for withdrawing said rejected suture package from the support surface of said tool nest. 56. The method as claimed in claim 55, wherein said withdrawing means includes a reciprocating member for movement towards and away from said at least one tool nest; and gripper means on the leading and of said reciprocating member for graspingly engaging and withdrawing a rejected suture package from said tool nest. 57. The method as claimed in claim 56, wherein a conveyor belt is located below said reciprocating member, said gripper means releasing said rejected suture package onto said conveyor belt for transport to a disposal site. 