A method and apparatus for analyzing molecular structures within a sample substance using an array having a plurality of test sites upon which the sample substance is applied. The invention is also directed to a method and apparatus for constructing molecular arrays having a plurality of test sites. The invention allows for definitive high throughput analysis of multiple analytes in complex mixtures of sample substances. A combinatorial analysis process is described that results in the creation of an array of integrated chemical devices. These devices operate in parallel, each unit providing specific sets of data that, when taken as a whole, give a complete answer for a defined experiment. This approach is uniquely capable of rapidly providing a high density of information from limited amounts of sample in a cost-effective manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for preparing a reaction substrate having biosites for conducting multiplexed microassays to determine binding between a target analyte and a capture probe, including: a plurality of capillary tubes, each tube having a proximal end and a distal end; an attachment site for holding said capillary tubes at a point spaced from the distal ends of such capillary tubes; an array template for slidably holding each capillary tube near its distal end, and for allowing the distal end of each capillary tube to move with respect to the attachment site; at least one manifold for positioning the proximal end of each capillary tube within a corresponding supply chamber, wherein each supply chamber is capable of supplying a liquid reagent to at least one corresponding capillary tube; and a positioning device for precisely positioning the array template and said capillary tubes with respect to said reaction substrate and depositing liquid reagents from said distal end of said capillary tubes onto said reaction substrate as biosites. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said plurality of capillary tubes comprises about 2 to about 10,000 tubes, having a center to center spacing of about 80 .mu.m to about 5 mm. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein each supply chamber supplies only one capillary tube. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein a supply chamber supplies a plurality of capillary tubes. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said capillary tubes comprise stainless steel, plastic, rubber, glass, or fused silica coated with polyimide. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said device includes a plurality of array templates. 7. The device of claim 1, further comprising a positioning device for precisely positioning said reaction substrate. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein said capillaries have an inside diameter of about 10 to about 200 .mu.m, and an outside diameter of about 80 to about 500 .mu.m. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said array template comprises an array of sleeves, each sleeve having an inside diameter sufficient to permit a capillary to slide through, and a length sufficient to allow a precise pattern to be maintained while depositing fluids onto said reaction substrate. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein said array template comprises a plurality of holes formed in a rigid material. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein said array template comprises a rigidly formed or held mesh. 12. The device of claim 1, further comprising a housing for containing said supply chambers. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein said housing is capable of maintaining an inert atmosphere. 14. The device of claim 12, wherein said housing is capable of maintaining an elevated or reduced temperature. 15. The device of claim 12, wherein said housing may be pressurized to a predetermined pressure. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein said pressure is modulated to control the flow of liquid reagents through said capillary tubes. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein said supply chambers are positioned higher than the distal end of said capillary tubes to provide a pressure head. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein deposit of liquid reagent is controlled by a means for electrophoresis. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein deposit of liquid reagent is controlled by a means for electro-osmosis. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein said device includes multiple sets of supply chambers, each for supplying liquid reagent to a subset of said capillary tubes. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein said capillary tubes are free to flex between said attachment site and said array template. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein the reaction substrate is pre-etched to define a pattern of reactive areas matching the geometry of the deposited biosites. 23. The device of claim 1, wherein said biosites are deposited substantially simultaneously. 24. The device of claim 1, wherein each biosite is fluidically isolated from each other biosite. 25. The device of claim 1, wherein the liquid reagent comprises at least one capture probe. 26. An apparatus for preparing a reaction substrate for use as an assay device, including: an attachment site for holding a plurality of flexible capillary tubes at a point spaced from the distal ends of such capillary tubes; a structure for positioning the proximal end of each capillary tube within a corresponding supply chamber, each supply chamber capable of supplying a liquid reagent to at least one corresponding capillary tube; a print head for holding said plurality of capillary tubes near their distal ends and for precisely positioning the distal ends of said capillary tubes with respect to said reaction substrate to deposit liquid reagents onto said reaction substrate as biosites. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, where the print head includes an ink-jet deposition device. 