The present invention provides a method of heat-treating an oxygen-sensitive workpiece to minimize any oxidation of the workpiece, as well as an improved door seal specially suited for use with oxygen-sensitive products. In the method, an oven has an oven chamber and an outer housing, with an enclosure being defined therebetween. The workpiece is placed in the oven chamber and the chamber is sealed. Heated inert gas is circulated within the enclosure to heat the oven chamber and to hold it at a desired treatment temperature. The oven chamber is then cooled to a threshold temperature of the workpiece using inert gas. The chamber is then cooled further by circulating aerobic gas, preferably ambient air, within the enclosure. Another embodiment of the invention provides an oven with a housing forming an oven chamber, the oven chamber having a door opening in one of said walls. The oven also has a heated door and an inflatable seal carried by either the door or the housing, the seal extending about the area of contact between the door and the housing, the seal being filled with a nitrogen-containing gas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of heat-treating an oxygen-sensitive workpiece comprising: a. Providing an oven having an oven chamber and an outer housing defining an enclosure between the oven chamber and the outer housing; b. Placing the oxygen-sensitive workpiece into the oven chamber and sealing the oven chamber from the exterior environment and the enclosure; c. circulating heated inert gas within the enclosure to increase the temperature within the oven chamber from a threshold temperature which Promotes oxidation damage to the workpiece to a higher treatment temperature; d. circulating heated inert gas within the enclosure to hold the temperature within the oven chamber at or above said treatment temperature; e. circulating inert gas within the enclosure to reduce the temperature within the oven chamber from said treatment temperature to said threshold temperature; and f. circulating an aerobic gas within the enclosure to reduce the temperature within the oven chamber from said threshold temperature to a cooler terminal temperature. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the aerobic gas comprises ambient air. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of filtering said ambient air prior to introducing the air into the enclosure. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step, prior to step C, of increasing the temperature within the oven chamber from about ambient temperature to about 125.degree. C. by circulating a heated gas comprising air within the enclosure. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the oven chamber has a door opening therein and the oven is provided with an oven chamber door adapted to engage the oven chamber door opening, the method including the step of sealing the oven chamber from the exterior environment comprising closing said oven chamber door to bring it into engagement with the oven chamber. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said oven chamber door includes a heating element to control the temperature of said oven chamber door, the method further comprising controlling the temperature of said oven chamber door so that the heating element in said oven chamber door and the circulation of heated gas within the enclosure combine to control the temperature within the oven chamber. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said oven chamber door the door includes an inflatable seal positioned to engage the oven chamber, the method further comprising inflating said seal with an inert gas. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said oven chamber door includes a conduit for cooling the inflatable seal to prevent the temperature of said oven chamber door from exceeding a maximum temperature, the method further comprising circulating a cooling fluid through the conduit to maintain the temperature of the seal at no more than about said maximum temperature. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of flushing the atmosphere of the oven chamber with an inert gas to remove oxygen within the oven chamber before the temperature in the oven chamber reaches about 125.degree. C. 10. A method of heat-treating an oxygen-sensitive workpiece comprising: a. providing an oven having a door, an oven chamber and an outer housing, an enclosure being defined between the oven chamber and the outer housing, the door being adapted to engage the oven chamber and seal the oven chamber from the exterior environment; b. placing the oxygen-sensitive workpiece into the oven chamber and closing the door to seal the oven chamber from the exterior environment and the enclosure; c. flushing the atmosphere of the oven chamber with an inert gas to remove oxygen within the oven chamber before the temperature in the oven chamber reaches about 125.degree. C. d. circulating heated air within the enclosure to increase the temperature within the oven chamber from an initial temperature to about 125.degree. C.; e. circulating heated inert gas within the enclosure to increase the temperature within the oven chamber from about 125.degree. C. to a higher treatment temperature; f. circulating heated inert gas within the enclosure to hold the temperature within the oven chamber at or above said treatment temperature; g. circulating inert gas within the enclosure to reduce the temperature within the oven chamber from said treatment temperature to about 125.degree. C.; and h. circulating air within the enclosure to reduce the temperature within the oven chamber from about 125.degree. C. to a cooler terminal temperature. 11. A method of heat-treating an oxygen-sensitive workpiece comprising: a. providing an oven having an oven chamber and an outer housing defining an enclosure between the oven chamber and the outer housing, the oven chamber having an external surface; b. placing the oxygen-sensitive workpiece into the oven chamber and sealing the oven chamber from the exterior environment and the enclosure; c. circulating a flow of heated inert gas within the enclosure in contact with said external surface of the oven chamber to increase the temperature within the oven chamber from a threshold temperature which promotes oxidation damage to the workpiece to a higher treatment temperature; d. Establishing a diffuse, laminar flow of inert gas through the oven chamber after sealing the oven chamber from the enclosure; e. circulating heated inert gas within the enclosure in contact with said external surface of the oven chamber to hold the temperature within the oven chamber at or above said treatment temperature; f. circulating inert gas within the enclosure in contact with said external surface of the oven chamber to reduce the temperature within the oven chamber from said treatment temperature to said threshold temperature; and g. circulating an aerobic gas within the enclosure in contact with said external surface of the oven chamber to reduce the temperature within the oven chamber from said threshold temperature to a cooler terminal temperature. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the inert gas flowing through the oven chamber makes a single pass through the oven chamber before being exhausted while the inert gas flowing within the enclosure is recirculated. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the flow of inert gas through the oven chamber is delivered to the oven chamber through a manifold which is sealed from the enclosure. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the inert gas delivered to the oven chamber is pre-heated in the manifold by the flow of inert gas within in the enclosure. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the aerobic gas comprises ambient air. 