A fully automated protein and/or DNA gene fragment analyzing machine and method are disclosed in which, in a simple machine structure, a plurality of electrophoresis calls each containing such fragments, are robotically, under computer programming, inserted into an electrophoresis housing and subjected to voltage for producing electrophoretic migration in one dimension (horizontally), and then preferably after robotic 90.degree. rotating of the cells, are voltage migrated in an orthogonal direction to separate the fragments vertically, and then robotically presented to an optical image scanner for identifying the brightest fragments and classifying the same, with comparison with reference image fragment locations of normal or variant fragments, and for computer storing all relevant data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic system for analyzing protein and/or DNA gene fragment samples comprising in combination, an electrophoresis housing unit for receiving electrophoresis cells, each containing a protein or a gene fragment sample, and an optical scanning inspection unit, means for positioning optically transparent gel cells, each containing a protein or gene fragment sample, in the electrophoresis housing unit; computer-controlled means for thereupon applying voltage to electrodes extending transversely of the housing to effect electrophoretic migration of the protein or gene fragments along one dimension of the cell to separate the protein or gene fragments by size, and further comprising means operable following the electrophoretic migration along said one dimension for effecting electrophoretic migration of the protein or gene fragments along a second dimension of each cell that extends 90.degree. to the said one dimension to separate the fragments in sequences, means for thereupon, under program control, sequentially presenting each cell image for optical scanning by said scanning inspection unit; means controlled by the computer program and operable during the scanning for identifying the desired fragments and their locations; and means for thereupon classifying the identified fragments. 2. The system claimed in claim 1, further comprising means for distinguishing the identified fragments from smear and other artifacts. 3. The system claimed in claim 2, further comprising means for comparing the identified fragments with reference locations of reference proteins and genes. 4. The system claimed in claim 3, further comprising means for returning the scanned cells to a storage location while storing all pertinent data related to the scanned fragments in the computer. 5. The system claimed in claim 1, further comprising means for setting up one of temperature or chemical gradients along the cells under the computer program control prior to the effecting of the electrophoretic migration along the second dimension. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein a temperature gradient is established and means is provided for adjusting the gradient to be non-linear along the cells. 7. A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising means for setting up one of a temperature or chemical gradient along the cells under computer program control during one of the electrophoresis migrations. 8. An automatic system for analyzing protein and/or DNA gene fragment samples comprising in combination, an electrophoresis housing unit for receiving electrophoresis cells, each containing a protein or a gene fragment sample, and an optical scanning inspection unit; means for positioning optically transparent gel cells, each containing a protein or gene fragment sample, in the electrophoresis housing unit; computer-controlled means for thereupon applying voltage to electrodes extending transversely of the housing to effect electrophoretic migration of the protein or gene fragments of all the cells simultaneously, first along one dimension of the cells and then along a second dimension of the cells extending 90.degree. to said one dimension; means for setting up one of a temperature or chemical gradient along the cells prior to effecting the electrophoretic migration along the second dimension, means operable under program control, for sequentially presenting each cell for image optical scanning to said scanning inspection unit; means controlled by the computer program and operable during the scanning for identifying the desired fragments and their locations, and means for thereupon classifying the identified fragments. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8 that is to analyze polymerase chain reaction base pair gene fragment samples contained in the cells, and wherein there is provided in the scanning inspection unit, under computer program control, means for identifying and contrasting the brighter gene fragments and their locations while distinguishing the same from smears and other artifacts; and means is further provided for automatically classifying the identified fragments and comparing the same with reference locations and spatial offsets of normal and mutated genes. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the identifying and classifying is effected by means for: a) setting a threshold of gene fragment image brightness for rejection; b) grouping all continuous pixel elements brighter than said threshold into clusters; c) computing the absolute brightness value and spatial brightness gradient of each pixel of brightness above the threshold; d) classifying those combinations of point brightness and gradient that are sufficiently high, as boundary points for potential identifiable gene fragments; e) computing the area within such boundaries and classifying as an identified fragment those within a predetermined range; f) examining each cluster for possible containing of bright fragments and classifying areas outside such fragments as smears and for ignoring; g) computing the area of clusters not containing bright fragments, and if within acceptable size constraints, classifying such as a fragment; and h) ignoring all remaining unclassified features as artifacts or smeared regions. 11. The system as claimed in claim 8 further comprising means for setting up a temperature gradient non-linearly across the cells. 12. The system claimed in claim 9 and in which there are provided basepair-sequenced gene fragments and such are fluorescent-labeled. 