A portable tracked wheel allows the operator or robot to move a vehicle from a surface track to another, or free the vehicle from guided motion without disassembly or modification of the wheel or track. By depressing the lock tab manually with hand or foot or remotely by mechanical or robotic means, the track retention mechanism can be positively engaged and the motion of the vehicle disposed to the track. Disengagement from the track is accomplished by depressing the lock tab in the same manner, allowing the retention mechanism to rotate out of the track, thereby freeing the motion of the vehicle. The anti-lift tracking mechanism is spring-loaded to maintain constant adhering force between the wheel and the tracked surface. Lateral translation of the wheel on the track is precluded by a slanted contact interface between the device and the track.
Claims Having thus described my invention and the manner of its use, it should be apparent that incidental changes may be made thereto that fairly fall within the scope of the following appended claims, wherein I claim: 1. A wheel assembly disposed for movement in a plane generally parallel to a surface and removably locked to said surface so as to prevent movement of said wheel assembly in directions other than said plane, said wheel assembly comprising: a support member, an axle extending through said support member, at least one wheel supported by said axle, an elongated locking member having a longitudinal axis and rotatably supported by said wheel assembly, said locking member movable between a lock position and a stowed position, an elongated first flange associated with said surface so that said flange is generally parallel to said surface so that in said lock position said locking member engages said flange and in a stowed position said locking member is disengaged from said flange and moved to said stowed position, whereby said wheel assembly is movable along said surface and said flange when said locking member is in said lock position and removable from said flange at any point along said flange by unlocking said locking member from said flange. 2. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said locking member engages a side of said flange opposed from said surface. 3. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said locking member is pivotally supported by said axle in a plane of rotation parallel to a plane of rotation of said wheel. 4. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said locking member extends generally perpendicular to said axle, and is rotatable about said longitudinal axis between said lock position and said unlocked position. 5. A wheel assembly set forth in claim 4 wherein said elongated flange is part of a track further comprising an elongated second flange opposed from said first flange with a slot therebetween, and a hollow region below said first and second flanges, for allowing said locking member to move along a side of said first and second flanges opposite said wheel. 6. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 5 wherein said locking member is provided with a generally T-shaped member at an end opposite said axle so that in said stowed position, said locking member is pivotable downward through said slot, whereupon said T-shaped member is rotatable about said longitudinal axis to lock said locking member in said lock position, whereby ends of said T-shaped member are underneath said first flange and said second flange, respectively, preventing movement of said wheel in any direction except along said track. 7. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 6 wherein said locking member is biased toward said axle, causing said ends of said T-shaped member to bear against respective surfaces of said first flange and said second flange when said locking member is locked in said lock position. 8. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a lock actuator pivotally supported by said wheel assembly and engaging said locking member so that said locking member is moved between said stowed position and said lock position by operating said lock actuator. 9. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 8 wherein said lock actuator and said locking member are coupled such that when said locking member is in said locked position, movement of said lock actuator either locks or unlocks said locking member to or from said first flange and said second flange by rotating said locking member about said longitudinal axis. 10. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 9 further comprising a rack and pinion coupled to said locking member and said lock actuator, for rotating said locking member between said locked position and said unlocked position. 11. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 10 further comprising a first catch and a second catch on said lock actuator, said first catch engagable with a first hook on said wheel assembly for locking said lock actuator and said locking member in said stowed position and said second catch engagable with a second hook on said wheel assembly for locking said lock actuator and said locking member in said lock position wherein said ends of said T-shaped member are locked under said first flange and said second flange, respectively. 12. A wheel assembly engagable to a track so that said wheel assembly is constrained for movement along said track, and engagable to and disengagable from said track at any point therealong by simply disengaging and moving a lever arm, said track comprising: a first flange and a second flange in spaced apart, opposed relation with respect to each other, with a hollow region below said first flange and said second flange, said wheel assembly comprising: a frame member supporting an axle, at least one wheel supported by said axle, a locking member having a longitudinal axis and supported by said axle for removably locking said wheel assembly to said track so that said wheel assembly is movable only along said track, said lever arm also supported by said axle and cooperating with said locking member to lock and disengage said locking member to and from said track, respectively, a locking lever supported in pivotal relation by said frame member, and provided with a first catch for engaging said lever arm to maintain said locking member in a locked position within said track, said locking lever being engagable with a second catch to lock said locking member in a disengaged position from said track. 13. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 12 wherein said locking member rotates about said longitudinal axis to lock and unlock said locking member into and from said track. 14. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 13 further comprising a rack and pinion arrangement between said locking member and said lever arm, for rotating said locking member about said longitudinal axis. 15. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 13 wherein said locking member further comprises: a hollow cylinder supported at one end by said axle, a rod longitudinally positioned in said cylinder and extending through an opposite end of said cylinder, said rod having a first end in said cylinder and provided with an enlarged region, and said rod being rotatable about said longitudinal axis, a spring positioned in said cylinder between said opposite end of said cylinder and said enlarged region so as to bias said rod toward said axle, a generally T-shaped member at a second end of said rod, said T-shaped member positionable in said track so that when said rod is rotated about said longitudinal axis so that said T-shaped member is perpendicular to said first flange and said second flange, said T-shaped member is biased by said spring against inner surfaces of said first flange and said second flange. 16. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 15 further comprising an antifriction roller on each end of said T-shaped member. 17. A wheel assembly as set forth in claim 15 wherein said inner surfaces of said first flange and said second flange are each inclined transversly with respect to said first flange and said second flange. 