A method of inspecting an image to locate a ball grid array surface-mounted device includes the steps of inspecting the image to find its surface features and to determine their locations (referred to herein as their "observed" locations); comparing expected locations of those features with the observed locations to identify missing surface features; reinspecting the image in the vicinity of apparently missing surface features to verify if the feature is really missing or to find those features and to determine their "observed" locations; and determining, from the observed locations of the surface features, the position and/or angle of the ball grid array surface-mounted device. The invention can be used to determine the position and/or angle of ball grid array surface-mounted devices with surface features in any of many array configurations, e.g., a regular lattice, a checker board lattice, a reverse checker board lattice, a regular lattice with a holes, and a custom lattice.
Claims In view of the foregoing, what I claim is: 1. A method of inspecting an image to locate a ball grid array surface-mounted device that is characterized by an array of similar surface features the method comprising: A. inspecting the image to find said surface features and to determine their observed locations, B. comparing expected locations of the surface features with the observed locations to identify any surface features that are apparently missing, wherein the comparing step comprises determining, from the observed locations of the surface features found in the inspecting step, a convex hull and its angle, determining, from the convex hull and its angle, a grid of expected locations of the surface features, C. reinspecting the image in a vicinity of an apparently missing surface feature to find that apparently missing surface feature and to determine its observed location, and D. determining, from the observed locations of the surface features found in the inspecting and reinspecting steps, any of a position and an angle of the ball grid array surface mounted device. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the grid comprises any of a regular lattice, a checker board lattice, a reverse checker board lattice, a regular lattice with a hole, and a custom lattice. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the determining step comprises identifying the position and angle of the ball grid array surface-mounted device by performing a rigid body fit of the observed locations of surface features to the grid of expected locations. 4. A method of inspecting an image to locate a ball grid array surface-mounted device that is characterized by an array of similar surface features, the method comprising: A. inspecting the image to find said surface features and to determine their observed locations, B. comparing expected locations of the surface features with the observed locations to identify any surface features that are apparently missing, the comparing step including i. determining, from the observed locations of the surface features found in the inspecting step, a convex hull and its angle, ii. determining, from the convex hull and its angle, a grid of expected locations of the surface features, iii. identifying vertices of the grid of expected locations, iv. finding a vertex closest to the observed location of each found surface feature and assigning that feature to that vertex, and v. generating a score based on a number of found surface features assigned to each vertex and the distance between that vertex and its assigned surface features, reinspecting the image in a vicinity of an apparently missing surface feature to find that apparently missing surface feature and to determine its observed location, and determining, from the observed locations of the surface features found in the inspecting and reinspecting steps, any of a position and an angle of the ball grid array surface mounted device. 5. An article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium embodying program code for causing a digital data processor to carry out a method of inspecting an image to locate a ball grid array surface-mounted device that is characterized by an array of similar surface features, the method comprising: A. inspecting the image to find those surface features and to determine their observed locations, B. comparing expected locations of the surface features with the observed locations to identify any surface features that are apparently missing, wherein the comparing step comprises determining, from the observed locations of the surface features found in the inspecting step, a convex hull and its angle, determining, from the convex hull and its angle, a grid of expected locations of the surface features, C. reinspecting the image in a vicinity of an apparently missing surface feature to find that surface feature and to determine its observed location, and D. determining, from the observed locations of the surface features found in the inspecting and reinspecting steps, any of a position and an angle of the ball grid array surface-mounted device. 