Devices and methods for supporting a sample container. In one embodiment, the device includes a holder for supporting a sample container, and a releasable clamp mechanism that applies a force against a side of the sample container. In another embodiment, the device includes a holder for supporting a sample container, wherein the holder has a central opening that permits analysis of a sample to be carried out from below the holder, and an open end that permits a sample container transfer device to enter a portion of the holder. In yet another embodiment, the device includes a holder for supporting a sample container, and drive mechanisms that move the holder between a docking station outside an analyzer and an examination site inside the analyzer, so that the holder can function both as a sample delivery device in and out of the analyzer, and as a moveable stage for supporting the sample container at the examination site. The method includes automatically delivering a sample container just outside an opening to the analyzer, moving a gripping device from inside the analyzer, through the opening, to a location immediately below the sample container, and gently placing the sample container onto the gripping device.
Claims We claim: 1. A support device for a sample container, the device comprising: a holder including shelf structure and associated frame structure at least partially defining a support area for supporting a sample container having a peripheral dimension, the area being larger than the peripheral dimension; a first releasable arm member that applies a first force against a central portion of a first side of the sample container; and a second releasable arm member that independently applies a second force against a central portion of a second side of the sample container; wherein the first and second arm members act on the sample container in series, after the sample container is placed in the support area, to secure the sample container in the holder. 2. The support device of claim 1, wherein the sample container is a microplate. 3. The support device of claim 1, wherein the support area is generally rectangular. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second releasable arm members are configures to position the sample container in a preselected portion of the holder. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the first side of the sample container in perpendicular to the second side of the sample container. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein portions of the frame structure function as bumpers to apply forces that oppose those applied by the arm members. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the first releasable arm member includes a pusher, and wherein the support device causes the sample container to be sandwiched between the pusher and an opposing portion of the frame structure. 8. The support device of claim 1, wherein the first and second forces may be varied by changing springs associated with the first and second arm members. 9. The support device of claim 1, wherein both of the arm members arc initiated, independently from the other arm member, after the sample container is placed in the support area. 10. The support device of claim 1, wherein the holder has a central opening that permits analysis of a sample to be carried out from below the shelf structure. 11. The support device of claim 1, wherein the holder has an end that can be opened to permit a transfer device to enter the support area through a side of the holder, the transfer device being configured to transfer the sample container to the holder. 12. The support device of claim 1 further comprising a first drive mechanism that moves the holder along an X-axis between a docking station outside an analyzer and an examination site inside the analyzer. 13. The support device of claim 12 further comprising a second drive mechanism that moves the holder along a Y-axis perpendicular to the X-axis when the holder is at the examination site, so that the holder can function both as a sample delivery device in and out of the analyzer, and as a moveable stage for supporting the sample container at the examination site. 