An implantable medical device such as a defibrillator is described. The device includes an hermetically sealed housing containing a flat electrolytic capacitor and an energy source such as a battery. The battery is connected to the capacitor and provides charge thereto. The capacitor stores the charge at a relatively high voltage. The charge stored in the capacitor is discharged through a defibrillation lead to a site on or in the heart when fibrillation of the heart is detected by the implantable medical device. Methods of making and using the implantable medical device, the capacitor, and their various components are disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. An hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising: (a) an hermetically sealed housing; (b) an energy source disposed within the housing; (c) a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor connected to the energy source and disposed within the housing, the capacitor comprising: (i) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (ii) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces; (iii) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (iv) a liquid electrolyte; (v) a case having a case wall comprising a substantially flat planar base and sidewalls extending upwardly therefrom to form an open end; (vi) a substantially planar cover having a cover wall for sealing the open end of the case; (vii) a fill port formed through one of the case wall and the cover wall for filling the capacitor with the liquid electrolyte, the fill port shaped to comprise a fill port tube having proximal and distal ends and a fill port ferrule formed of the same material as the fill port tube at the proximal end of the fill port tube and comprising a fill port ferrule flange extending transversely to and away from the fill port tube proximal end, the fill port ferrule being mounted in an opening disposed in one of the case wall and the cover wall with the ferrule flange in sealing engagement therewith, the distal end of the fill port tube being disposed outwardly away from the fill port ferrule and mechanically crimpingly sealable in a region propinquant to the distal end thereof; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, and the electrolyte is disposed inside the case. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube is cylindrically shaped. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule form a single contiguous fill port component mountable in the opening, the component formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 3, wherein the case and the cover are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube has a height between about 0.065 inches and about 0.300 inches. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed against the one of the cover wall or the case wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 6, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 7, wherein the case is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube is trimmed. 10. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed hermetically against the one of the cover wall or the case wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 10, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 11, wherein the cover is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode foils are aluminum foil. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cathode foil is aluminum. 15. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the capacitor is an aluminum electrolytic capacitor. 16. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 17. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the energy source is selected from the group consisting of a battery, an electrochemical cell, a primary electrochemical cell, a secondary or rechargeable electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell comprising a lithium-containing anode, an electrochemical cell comprising a silver vanadium oxide-containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a (CF.sub.n).sub.x -containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a cathode containing a mixture of silver vanadium oxide and (CF.sub.n).sub.x, a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewith in. 18. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 19. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 20. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte is an ethylene glycol-based electrolyte. 21. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule includes a hydrogen permeable membrane, barrier, substance or material. 22. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule includes a helium permeable membrane, barrier, substance or material. 23. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube is free of sealing material or sealing components. 24. A substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising: (a) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (b) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foils, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces; (c) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (d) a liquid electrolyte; (e) a case having a case wall comprising a substantially flat planar base and sidewalls extending upwardly therefrom to form an open end; (f) a substantially planar cover having a cover wall for sealing the open end of the case; (g) a fill port formed through one of the case wall and the cover wall for filling the capacitor with the liquid electrolyte, the fill port shaped to comprise a fill port tube having proximal and distal ends and a fill port ferrule formed of the same material as the fill port tube at the proximal end of the fill port tube and comprising a fill port ferrule flange extending transversely to and away from the fill port tube proximal end, the fill port ferrule being mounted in an opening disposed in one of the case wall and the cover wall with the ferrule flange in sealing engagement therewith, the distal end of the fill port tube being disposed outwardly away from the fill port ferrule and mechanically crimpingly sealable in a region propinquant to the distal end thereof; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, and the electrolyte is disposed inside the case. 25. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the fill port tube is cylindrically shaped. 26. The implantable medical device of claim 24, wherein the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule form a single contiguous fill port component mountable in the opening, the component formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 27. The implantable medical device of claim 26, wherein the case and the cover are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 28. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the fill port tube has a height between about 0.065 inches and about 0.300 inches. 29. The implantable medical device of claim 24, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed against the one of the cover wall or the case wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 30. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the fill port tube is trimmed. 31. The implantable medical device of claim 30, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 32. The implantable medical device of claim 31, wherein the case is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 33. The implantable medical device of claim 24, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed hermetically against the one of the cover wall or the case wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 34. The implantable medical device of claim 31, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 35. The implantable medical device of claim 34, wherein the cover is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 36. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the anode foils are aluminum. 37. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the cathode foil is aluminum foil. 38. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the capacitor is an aluminum electrolytic capacitor. 39. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 40. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 41. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein the electrolyte is an ethylene glycol-based electrolyte. 42. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein at least one of the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule includes a hydrogen permeable membrane, barrier, substance or material. 43. The capacitor of claim 24, wherein at least one of the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule includes a helium permeable membrane, barrier, substance or material. 44. The implantable medical device of claim 24, wherein the fill port tube is free of sealing material or sealing components. 