A pod loading station and method of operation are provided for enabling the transfer and introduction of wafers into a processing system from a wafer pod. The pod loading station generally includes a movable receiving platform for supporting a wafer pod and a movable pod door receiver having a pod door latch actuating mechanism disposed thereon. The movable platform supports a wafer pod, moves the wafer pod into engagement with the pod door receiver, and then retracts to enable the door supported by the door receiver to be removed from the opening of the pod. The pod door receiver then lowers the pod door below the pod to enable access to the pod opening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for opening a pod door, comprising: a) a movable pod receiving member having a first actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod receiving member horizontally; and b) a pod door receiver disposed adjacent the pod receiving member, the pod door receiver having a second actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod door receiver vertically relative to the pod receiving member without moving the pod door receiver horizontally away from the pod receiving member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pod door receiver comprises a pod door latch actuating mechanism disposed thereon. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the pod receiving member further comprises a locking mechanism to secure a wafer pod thereto. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the first and second actuators are electric or pneumatic motors. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the pod door latch actuating mechanism comprises two rotatable members actuated by at least a third actuator. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the at least one actuator is mounted on the pod door receiver. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pod door receiver comprises a recess adapted to receive a pod door, the recess comprising one or more pod door latch actuating mechanisms disposed thereon. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the recess further comprises one or more pod door alignment pins disposed thereon. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: c) a base plate to mount the pod receiving member and the first actuator; and d) an interface plate connected to the base plate, the interface plate defining an opening through which a wafer can be transferred. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the pod door receiver and the interface plate define a gap adjacent the opening when the pod door receiver is in at least one position. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the interface plate and the perimeter of a wafer pod opening define a gap adjacent the interface opening when the pod door receiver is in a wafer transfer position. 12. An apparatus for processing wafers, comprising: a) a front-end staging area having one or more pod loading stations disposed thereon, the pod loading stations comprising: 1) a movable pod receiving member having an actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod receiving member between at least a first loading/unloading position, a second pod door engaging position and a third pod door removal position; and 2) a pod door receiver disposed adjacent the pod receiving member, the pod door receiver having an actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod door receiver relative to the pod receiving member without moving the pod door receiver horizontally away from the pod receiving member; b) one or more load lock chambers connected to the front-end staging area; c) a transfer chamber connected to the one or more load lock chambers; and d) one or more processing chambers connected to the transfer chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a base plate to mount the pod receiving member and the actuator and an interface plate connected to the base plate, the interface plate defining an opening through which the wafers are transferred. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the pod door receiver and the interface plate define a gap adjacent the opening when the pod door receiver is in a door receiving position. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the interface plate and the perimeter of a wafer pod opening define a gap adjacent the interface opening when the pod door receiver is in a wafer transfer position. 16. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the front-end staging area is maintained at a slightly positive pressure. 17. A method of operating a pod door disposed in a pod opening, comprising: a) moving a wafer pod to engage the pod door with a door opening member; b) retracting the wafer pod to disengage the pod door from the pod opening; and c) moving the pod door out of the pod door opening. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of moving the pod door out of the pod door opening comprises lowering the pod door below the pod opening. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising unlocking the pod door from the pod opening following engagement with the door opening member. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the wafer pod is moved from a first loading position to a second door opener engaging position and then to an intermediate door removal position. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein the pod door is supported in a recess in the door opener. 22. The method of claim 17 further wherein the door opener comprises an optical sensor to map one or more wafers disposed in the wafer pod. 23. An apparatus for opening a pod door, comprising: a) a movable pod receiving member having a first actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod receiving member between at least a first, a second and a third position; and b) a pod door receiver disposed adjacent the pod receiving member, the pod door receiver having a second actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod door receiver relative to the pod receiving member, and having a recess adapted to receive a pod door, the recess comprising one or more pod door latch actuated mechanisms disposed thereon. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the recess further comprises one or more pod door alignment pins disposed thereon. 25. An apparatus for opening a pod door, comprising: a movable pod receiving member having a first actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod receiving member between at least a first, second and third position; a pod door receiver disposed adjacent the pod receiving member, the pod door receiver having a second actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod door receiver relative to the pod receiving member; a base plate to which the pod receiving member and the first actuator are mounted; and an interface plate connected to the base plate, the interface plate defining an opening through which a wafer can be transferred; wherein the interface plate and a perimeter of a wafer pod opening define a gap adjacent the interface opening when the pod door receiver is in a wafer transfer position. 26. An apparatus for processing wafers, comprising: a) a front-end staging area having one or more pod loading stations disposed thereon, the pod loading stations comprising: 1) a movable pod receiving member having an actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod receiving member between at least a first loading/unloading position, a second pod door engaging position and a third pod door removal position; and 2) a pod door receiver disposed adjacent the pod receiving member, the pod door receiver having an actuator connected thereto and adapted to move the pod door receiver relative to the pod receiving member; 3) a base plate to mount the pod receiving member and the actuator; and 4) an interface plate connected to the base plate, the interface plate defining an opening through which the wafers are transferred; wherein the interface plate and the perimeter of a wafer pod opening define a gap adjacent the interface opening when the pod door receiver is in a wafer transfer position; b) one or more load lock chambers connected to the front-end staging area; c) a transfer chamber connected to the one or more load lock chambers; d) one or more processing chambers connected to the transfer chamber. 