This invention pertains to an apparatus for automatically assembling elements of a COAST container. The apparatus includes a cabinet that has a vertical stocker mounted therein for holding the elements of the COAST container, an input loadlock mechanism for introducing the elements into the cabinet, a manipulating mechanism for placing the elements into the vertical stocker, a conveyor located outside of the cabinet, a load loadlock mechanism mounted inside the cabinet and interfacing with the outside thereof near the conveyor, an automatic manipulator mechanism inside the cabinet for removing the elements from the vertical stocker and assembling these elements into the COAST container, and a mechanism for pressurizing the inside of the cabinet with a protective atmosphere.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembler apparatus (800) for automatically assembling elements of a COAST container (100); and pressurizing said assembled COAST container before releasing it onto a conveyor (402) of a manufacturing line (15); said apparatus (800) being operable in an average cleanliness room comprising: a cabinet (801), having a front wall, a back wall, and two side walls defining at least one compartment (802); a conveyor vertical stocker means (804), mounted inside said cabinet that is provided with different types of bins (815), wherein each of said bins being adapted to a type of said elements of said COAST container; input loadlock means (810), for introducing said elements of said COAST container within said cabinet from the outside; manipulating means (805), for manipulating said elements inside said cabinet and in particular for accurately placing said elements into their respective bins of the said stocker means; a load loadlock mechanism (808), mounted inside said cabinet and interfacing with the outside thereof at the vicinity of said conveyor; an automatic manipulator mechanism (807), inside the cabinet for automatically and successively grasping an element of each type from its respective bin of the said stocker means in the order mentioned above which cooperates with said load loadlock mechanism for their automatic assembly, to finally produce an assembled container in said load loadlock mechanism, and thereby said assembler apparatus automatically assembles elements of said COAST container; means for pressurizing the assembled container, while the assembled container is in said loadlock mechanism, to enclose the wafer within a protective atmosphere. 2. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising compressed ultra-pure neutral gas supply means (852), connected to said load loadlock mechanism and adapted to pressurize said assembled container. 3. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transport mechanism (827,839), for transporting said assembled pressurized container from the interior of said load loadlock mechanism to an IN station (402-I) of said conveyor. 4. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising air circulating means for blowing clean air from the top of said cabinet to its bottom and thereby creating a clean mini-environment therein with a light overpressure with regard to the outside ambient. 5. The assembler apparatus of claim 4, wherein said air circulating means comprises a blower assembly, a filter and hygrometry control means that are secured within said cabinet. 6. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a wafer orientation and identification means (809), inside said cabinet for reading identification data recorded on said wafer. 7. The assembler apparatus of claim 6, wherein said identification means further includes means for writing onto said wafer. 8. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a working table (806), for supporting said elements when introduced in the interior space of said cabinet. 9. The assembler apparatus of claim 8, further comprising at least one manipulating means, said manipulative means consists of a plurality of manipulation gloves to allow the handling of said elements by an operator. 10. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said stocker further comprises of a three elevators (804A, 804B and 804C), each elevator being provided with a plurality of superposed bins whose spacing and design are adapted to a type of said element. 11. The assembler apparatus of claim 10, wherein said elevators are movable incrementally either upwardly or downwardly under manual control. 12. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, further comprises of a partition wall which in combination with said vertical stocker delineates two compartments (802A and 802B) inside said cabinet. 13. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said load loadlock mechanism is in communication with a host computer controlling the manufacturing line. 14. The assembler apparatus of claim 1, wherein said manipulator mechanism further comprises at least one rotating head movable in the X, Y and Z directions, and wherein said rotating head is provided with a plurality of handling grippers adapted to safely grasp and handle an element. 