A sutured staple, instrument and method are provided for constructing a graft-to-artery anastomosis and other soft tissue anastomoses, particularly by minimally invasive (or endoscopic) surgery. The sutured staple is comprised of a needle, pin, base and flange. The needle allows this surgical staple to be sewn through, for example, a graft and artery to be joined, and the pin, base and flange are formed to seal the graft and artery together between cooperating surfaces of the base and flange. The instrument holds the staple at its distal or working end, and controls in the handle allow application of the staple. The method employs the sutured staples and instrument to join soft tissues and to construct graft-to-artery anastomoses.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical fastener comprising: a base having at least one substantially planar surface, a flange bendably joined to a first edge of the base and having at least one substantially planar surface adapted to cooperate with the planar surface of the base, a pin bendably joined to the base at a second edge of said base opposing the first edge, and a needle substantially longer than the pin for skewering tissues, or tissue and graft, the needle being removably joined to the pin to receive the tissues, or tissue and graft, from the needle, the pin and flange capable of bending over the base to fix the tissues, or tissue and graft, together. 2. A surgical fastener defined in claim 1 wherein the base is configured to be releasably engaged with an associated applying instrument. 3. A surgical fastener for securing portions of tissues, or tissue and graft, together comprising: base means having at least one substantially planar surface, flange means bendably joined to a first edge of the base means and having at least one substantially planar surface for cooperating with the planar surface of the base means, pin means bendably joined to the base means at a second edge of said base opposing the first edge, and needle means removably joined to the pin means for piercing tissues, or tissue and graft, wherein the base means and the flange means each have cooperating surfaces to contact and secure on the pin means portions of tissues, or tissue and graft, to be joined together. 4. A surgical fastener defined in claim 3 wherein the base means includes means for releasably engaging an associated applying instrument. 5. An instrument for applying a surgical staple comprising: an elongated shaft having a distal end portion, a staple holder at the distal end portion adapted to engage a staple and a needle removably joined to the staple, wherein the needle is substantially longer than any member of the staple, and the staple includes a base including at least one substantially planar surface, a flange bendably joined to a first edge of the base and having at least one substantially planar surface adapted to cooperate with the planar surface of the base, and a pin bendably joined to an edge of the base opposing said first edge, a staple forming member at the distal end portion adapted to bend the pin over a substantial portion of the base and to bend the flange over a substantial portion of the pin, so that the staple is substantially closed, and a handle having a control for actuating the staple forming member. 6. An instrument defined in claim 5 wherein the elongated shaft has a length and width adapted for use in minimally invasive surgery. 7. An instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein the base is configured to be releasably engaged by the staple holder, and the handle has a control for releasing the staple after it is closed. 8. An instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein the staple holder is also adapted to articulate the needle relative to the elongated shaft, and the handle has a control for actuating an articulating mechanism. 9. An instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein the instrument further comprises a needle removal member at the distal end portion adapted to remove the needle from the staple. 10. An instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein: the base and the flange each have cooperating surfaces to contact and secure on the pin portions of tissues to be joined or portions of a graft to an artery. 11. An instrument as defined in claim 10 wherein the elongated shaft has a maximum diameter less than about 20 millimeters. 12. An instrument for applying a surgical staple comprising: an elongated shaft having a distal end portion, staple holder means at the distal end portion for holding a staple and a needle removably attached to the staple for piercing tissues, or tissue and graft, wherein the needle is substantially longer than any member of the staple, and the staple comprises base means having at least one substantially planar surface for securing tissues or grafts, flange means bendably joined to one edge of the base means and having at least one substantially planar surface for cooperating with the planar surface of the base means to secure tissues or grafts, and pin means bendably joined to the base means at an opposing edge for holding tissues or grafts, wherein the base means and the flange means each have cooperating surfaces to contact and secure on the pin means portions of tissues to be joined together or portions of a graft to an artery, staple forming means associated with the staple holder means for bending the pin means over a portion of the base means, and for folding the flange means over a substantial portion of the pin means so that the staple is substantially closed, and a handle having control means for actuating the staple forming means. 13. An instrument defined in claim 12 wherein the elongated shaft has a length and width adapted for use in minimally invasive surgery. 14. An instrument as defined in claim 12 wherein the base means includes means for releasably engaging the staple holder means, and the handle has control means for releasing the staple after it is closed. 15. An instrument as defined in claim 12 wherein the staple holder means includes means to articulate the needle relative to the elongated shaft, and the handle has control means for actuating such articulation means. 16. An instrument as defined in claim 12 wherein the instrument further comprises needle removal means at the distal end portion for removing the needle from the pin means. 17. An instrument as defined in claim 12 wherein the elongated shaft has a maximum diameter less than about 20 millimeters. 18. A method for attaching soft tissues located in the abdominal cavity, chest and retroperitoneal space and for attaching a graft to an artery in these areas comprising: providing an instrument for applying a surgical staple having an elongated shaft with a distal end portion and having a staple forming member at the distal end portion adapted to bend portions of a staple, providing a staple holder at the distal end of the instrument with at least one staple, and a needle attached to each at least one staple, the at least one staple comprising a base having at least one substantially planar surface, a flange bendably joined to one edge of the base and having at least one substantially planar surface adapted to cooperate with the planar surface of the base, and a pin bendably joined to the base at an opposing edge, wherein the base and the flange each have cooperating surfaces to contact and secure on the pin portions of tissues to be joined together or portions of a graft to an artery, incising a patient's tissue to create at least one opening into the patient's abdominal cavity, chest or retroperitoneal space, inserting the distal end of the instrument through the opening, so that the distal end is disposed in the patient, passing the needle through a portion of one tissue, graft or artery and through a portion of a second tissue, artery or graft, and actuating the staple forming member to bend the pin over a substantial portion of the base and to bend the flange over a substantial portion of the pin, so that the staple is substantially closed. 19. The method defined in claim 18 wherein the passing and actuating steps are repeated to apply additional staples. 20. The method defined in claim 18 wherein the incising step creates a small incision and wherein the inserting, passing and actuating steps are performed by minimally invasive surgical procedures. 21. The method defined in claim 18 wherein the shaft of the needle is passed through a portion of a first graft or artery and through a second artery or graft to form a portion of an artery to graft anastomosis. 22. A surgical staple system for fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, comprising: a first member with a needle removably joined to the first member, said needle being substantially longer than the first member and adapted to pass through the tissues, or tissue and graft; a second member adjacent to said first member; and a third member adjacent to said second member, said second and third members capable of moving from a first orientation, where portions of said members are spaced apart sufficiently to receive the tissues, or tissue and graft therebetween, to a second orientation where said members lie in contact with the tissues, or tissue and graft. 23. A surgical staple as recited in claim 22, wherein said first member is capable of being bent with respect to said second member and said third member has a recess adapted to receive at least a portion of said first member. 24. A surgical staple system for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together, comprising: a base having a substantially planar surface and adapted to be releasably gripped by a staple applying instrument; a flange having a substantially planar surface attached to a first edge of said base, said flange capable of moving from a first position, where said substantially planar surfaces of said flange and base are spaced apart sufficiently to receive the tissues, or tissue and graft, therebetween, to a second position, where said substantially planar surfaces of said base and flange lie in contact with the tissues, or tissue and graft; and a pin attached to a second edge of said base different from said first edge, said pin adapted to releasably join with a needle substantially longer than said pin, said pin capable of moving from a first position, where said pin and said substantially planar surface of said base are spaced apart sufficiently to receive the tissues, or tissue and graft, therebetween, to a second position, where said pin and said substantially planar surface of said base lie in contact with the tissues, or tissue and graft. 25. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 24 further comprising a needle releasably joined to said pin. 26. A surgical staple system for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together, comprising: a staple including at least a first section adjacent to a second section, said first and second sections capable of moving from a first orientation, where said first and second sections are spaced apart sufficiently to receive the tissues, or tissue and graft, therebetween, to a second orientation, where said first and second sections lie in contact with the tissues, or tissue and graft; and a single needle capable of aligning and skewering the tissues, or tissue and graft, said needle being attached to one of said first or second sections of said staple. 27. A surgical fastener system, comprising: a staple including at least first and second joined sections, said first and second sections capable of moving from a first orientation, where said first and second sections are spaced apart sufficiently to receive the tissues, or tissue and graft, therebetween, to a second orientation, where said first and second sections lie in contact with the tissues, or tissue and graft; a single needle affixed adjacent to an end of one section of said at least first and second joined sections; and an instrument capable of manipulating said needle in a minimally invasive procedure such that said needle skewers a first tissue or graft, aligns said first tissue or graft to a desired position with respect to a second tissue or graft, and skewers said second tissue or graft, and said instrument capable of folding said at least first and second joined sections with respect to each other to secure said first tissue or graft to said second tissue or graft between said at least first and second joined sections of the staple. 28. A surgical staple system for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together, comprising: a staple including a first section joined to a second section; a single needle affixed to said staple for skewering the tissues, or tissue and graft, and for locating the tissues, or tissue and graft, in a desired position with respect to the staple, said needle being substantially longer than either said first section or said second section of said staple; and an instrument having a proximal and distal end, including: means in said distal end for holding said staple, means in said distal end for articulating said staple, means in said distal end for bending said first section with respect to said second section in a minimally invasive procedure, controls located remotely from said distal end for actuating said staple holding means, said staple articulating means, and said bending means, and connecting means for connecting said controls in the proximal end with the staple holding means, said staple articulating means, and said bending means in said distal end. 29. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 28, wherein said needle is articulated by said means for articulating said staple. 30. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 29, further comprising means for removing said needle from said staple. 31. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 30, wherein means for bending said first section with respect to said second section and said means for removing said needle from said staple retract proximally from said distal end to provide a clear line of sight for a surgeon to said needle while said means for articulating said staple articulates said needle. 32. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together with a staple in a minimally invasive surgical procedure, the staple including a base, a flange attached to a first edge of said base, and a pin attached to an edge of said base other than the first edge, the pin having a needle removably mounted thereon for skewering the tissues, or tissue and graft, comprising: a staple holder in the distal end for holding the staple and needle; means in the distal end for articulating said staple holder, to manipulate the needle such that the needle skewers the tissues, or tissue and graft, on the needle in a desired position with respect to each other, and positions the tissues, or tissue and graft, on the pin; means in the distal end for removing the needle from the staple; a staple forming member in the distal end, including: means for bending the pin down over the base, and means for bending the flange down over the pin and base; controls located remotely from said distal end for actuating said means for articulating said staple holder, said means for removing the needle, and said staple forming member; and connecting means spanning between the distal and proximal ends of the instrument for connecting said controls to said means for articulating said staple holder, said means for removing the needle, and said staple forming member. 33. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, wherein said means for removing the needle from the staple and said staple forming member retract proximally from said distal end to provide a clear line of sight for a surgeon to said needle while said means for articulating said staple holder manipulates said needle. 34. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, wherein said controls comprise hand-actuated controls. 35. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, wherein said controls comprise automated robotic controls. 36. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, wherein said controls and said connecting means together comprise an automated robotic system for actuating said means for articulating said staple holder, said means for removing the needle, and said staple forming member. 37. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, further comprising a motor, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 38. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, further comprising pneumatic means, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 39. An instrument including distal and proximal ends for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 32, further comprising hydraulic means, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 40. A surgical fastener as recited in claim 39 wherein said first member defines a hole providing passage for at least a portion of said first member therethough. 41. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 26 wherein said needle is removably attached to one of said first or section sections of said staple. 42. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 26 wherein said needle is fixedly attached to one of said first or second section of said staple. 43. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 42 wherein one of said first or second sections defines a hole providing passage for at least a portion of said needle therethrough. 44. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 26 wherein said needle is integral with one of said first or second sections of said staple. 45. A surgical staple system as recited in claim 44 wherein one of said first or second sections defines a hole providing passage for at least a portion of said needle therethrough. 46. A surgical staple as recited in claim 22, further comprising a piercing implement removably joined to said first member. 47. A surgical fastener as recited in claim 22 wherein said first member includes a piercing end. 