A memory disk having a central opening and planar sides for receiving magnetic media on both of the sides is bounded by a cylindrical outside diameter peripheral edge and chamfered edges extending between each of the planar sides. The peripheral edge is clamped by a disk processing chuck including a disk retainer mount having a central disk support for mounting a circular disk edge bounding the central opening and a mount cylindrical beveled edge receiving an outside diameter chamfered edge of the disk. A ring in the retainer mount includes a multiplicity of spaced radial fingers extending cylindrically around the ring, each finger having a distal end extending to a first position outboard of the disk peripheral edge. The distal ends are moveable inwardly to a second position by an inflatable bladder acting simultaneously against all the fingers, placing the distal end tips into clamping contact with the disk peripheral edge mounted on the retainer mount.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disk processing chuck for holding a memory disk, the disk having a central opening and planar sides for receiving magnetic media on both of the sides, the disk being bounded by a cylindrical outside diameter peripheral edge and chamfered edges extending between each of the planar sides and the peripheral edge, said chuck comprising: a disk retainer mount including a central disk support for mounting a circular chamfered edge of the disk bounding the disk central opening and a peripheral mount edge for receiving one of the outside diameter chamfered edges of the disk; a retaining ring seated in said retainer mount, said ring including a multiplicity of spaced radial fingers extending cylindrically around said ring, each finger having a distal end extending to a first position outboard of said mount edge; and wherein the distal ends are movable inwardly to a second position into clamping contact with the outside diameter peripheral edge of a disk mounted on said retainer mount. 2. The disk processing chuck of claim 1 further including a cylindrical expandable air bladder surrounding an intermediate portion of an outside periphery of said fingers for collectively moving said distal ends inwardly to forcedly contact the outside diameter peripheral edge of the mounted disk and clamp the disk against rotation relative to said retainer mount. 3. The disk processing chuck of claim 2 wherein said fingers are flexible and are deformable by a force provided by inflation of said bladder. 4. The disk processing chuck of claim 2 wherein said distal ends of said fingers have a thickness approximate that of a width of the outside diameter peripheral edge of the disk being clamped such that one of the planar sides of the disk extends unimpeded outboard of the fingers. 5. The disk processing chuck of claim 4, in combination with a polishing machine, wherein at least one of the retainer mount and a polishing pad is movable orthogonally relative to each other to bring that one of the planar sides of the disk into polishing pressure contact with said polishing pad. 6. The combination of claim 5 wherein the air bladder is deflatable allowing removal of the disk and reversal of the orientation of the disk such that by reinflation of the air bladder the disk is reclamped and the other of the planar sides of the disk is in a position to be brought into polishing pressure contact with the same polishing pad. 7. The combination of claim 5 wherein the disk mount is rotatable to rotate the clamped disk during polishing and wherein the polishing pad is rotatable in the same circumferential direction as the clamped disk. 8. The combination of claim 5 further including a fixed base and wherein said mount and said retaining ring are gimbal mounted on the fixed base. 9. The combination of claim 8 wherein said fixed base includes a substantially semi-spherical bulbous distal portion and said retainer mount includes a semi-spherical-bottomed bore mounting said bulbous distal portion, providing the gimbal mounting. 10. The combination of claim 9 further including a dampener extending between a periphery of said fixed base and a periphery of an air bladder support ring extending around the retainer mount. 11. The disk processing chuck of claim 2 wherein the retainer mount includes a fixed base having a disk surface cavity exposed on an exposed surface between said central disk support and said retaining ring, a peripheral surface of the fixed base seating the retaining ring; and further including an air bladder support ring extending circumferentially around the retainer mount and retaining said air bladder proximate to the retainer ring; and an air bladder air inlet in said fixed base and extending to an interior of the air bladder. 12. The disk processing chuck of claim 1 wherein the distal ends of the fingers have a radiused tip matching the disk outside diameter. 13. The disk processing chuck of claim 1 wherein said central disk support provides an unclamped support for the disk. 14. The disk processing chuck of claim 1 wherein a clamping force of each distal end of the fingers is less than about 1.5 kg. 15. The disk processing chuck of claim 1, in combination with a polishing machine, wherein the retainer mount in an operational mode is facing downward to position a clamped disk over a polishing pad to prevent ingress of foreign particles by gravitational dropping on a disk being polished. 16. The disk processing chuck of claim 1 wherein each of said distal ends are in line contact with the peripheral edge of a clamped disk and said central disk support is in a circular line contact with a beveled edge of the disk central opening. 17. The disk processing chuck of claim 1 wherein the fingers are flexible cantilevered spring fingers extending from a proximal end of the fingers extending from the retainer mount. 18. The disk processing chuck of claim 1, in combination with a polishing machine, wherein the disk retainer mount is rotatable to rotate a clamped disk and is slidable to oscillate the clamped disk with respect to a polishing pad. 