A method and apparatus is disclosed for managing inventory updates in a data library. The method and apparatus allows mount/demount activity to occur during an inventory update and allows a corresponding increase in the number of data storage media that are available for mount/demount during the inventory update. The invention initiates an inventory update for the data storage media library, scans data storage media in the data storage media library behind opened doors, identifies verified data storage media, receives a request for moving data storage media between the slots and the data storage drives, determines if the request is for verified data storage media and performs the request when the request is determined to be for verified data storage media. The request is requeued when the request is for unverified data storage media. Whether a frame containing data storage media has had a door to the frame opened is determined and the data storage media in a frame having had the door opened is designated as being unverified. Data storage media in a frame not having had the door opened is designated as being verified.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing inventory updates in a data storage media library, comprising the steps of: initiating an inventory update for the a data storage media library; scanning data storage media in the data storage media library; identifying verified data storage media; receiving a request for moving data storage media between a rack and data storage media drives; determining if the request is for verified data storage media; performing the request when the request is determined to be for verified data storage media; and requeueing the request when the request is for unverified data storage media. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of identifying verified data storage media further comprises the step of determining whether a frame containing data storage media has had a door to the frame opened and designating the data storage media in a frame having had the door opened as being unverified. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of identifying verified data storage media further comprises the step of determining whether a frame containing data storage media has had a door to the frame opened and designating the data storage media in a frame not having had the door opened as being verified. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the request is a mount request, a data storage media being associated with the mount request. 5. The method of claim wherein the step of determining if the request is for verified data storage media further comprises the steps of: determining whether the mount is a category mount; ascertaining the next volume in the category when the mount is from a category; locating an assigned cell of the volume; resolving whether the assigned cell is included in the inventory; and performing the mount request when the assigned cell is not included in the inventory. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of deciding whether the data storage media has been seen in the assigned cell when the assigned cell is included in the inventory. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of performing the mount request when the data storage media has been seen in the assigned cell. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of determining whether the data storage media associated with the mount request is from a category when the data storage media has not been seen in the assigned cell. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of determining a next volume in the category if the data storage media associated with the mount request is from a category mount. 10. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of designating the data storage media associated with the mount request as being unverified when the data storage media has not been seen in the assigned cell. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the request is a demount request, a data storage media being associated with the demount request. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of determining if the request is for verified data storage media further comprises the step of locating a cell assigned to a volume containing the data storage media associated with the demount request. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of establishing whether the assigned cell is included in the inventory. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of performing the demount request when the assigned cell is not included in the inventory. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of determining whether the cell has been scanned and determined to be empty when the assigned cell is included in the inventory. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of designating the data storage media associated with the demount request as being verified when the cell has been scanned and determined to be empty. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of designating the data storage media associated with the demount request as being unverified when the cell has been scanned and determined not to be empty. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of initiating the inventory update further comprises updating a number of unverified cartridges and frames to increase the number of verified cartridges and frames after initiating the inventory update, the increase in the number of verified cartridges and frames increasing the likelihood of satisfying a request. 19. The data storage media dataserver, comprising: a data storage media Library including data storage media; data storage drives; an accessor for accessing accesses the data storage media from storage slots in the data storage media library and delivering the accessed media to the data storage drives; and a library manager, the library manager initiating an inventory update for the data storage media library, scanning data storage media in the data storage media library, identifying verified data storage media, receiving a request for moving data storage media between the slots and the data storage drives, determining the request is for verified data storage media performing the request when the request is determined to be for verified data storage media and requeueing the request when the request is for unverified data storage media. 20. The dataserver of claim 19 wherein the library manager identifies verified data storage media by determining whether a frame containing data storage media has had a door to the frame opened and designating the data storage media in a frame having had the door opened as being unverified. 21. The dataserver of claim 20 wherein the library manager designates the data storage media in a frame not having had the door opened as being verified. 22. The dataserver of claim 9 wherein the library manager updates a number of unverified cartridges and frames to increase the number of verified cartridges and frames after initiating the inventory update, the increase in the number of verified cartridges and frames increasing the likelihood of satisfying a request. 23. An article of manufacture or computer-based user-interface, the article of manufacture comprising a computer readable medium hanging instructions for causing a computer to perform and manage inventory updates in a data storage media library, the method comprising the steps of: initiating an inventory update for the a data storage media library; scanning data storage media in the data storage media library; identifying verified data storage media; receiving a request for moving data storage media between a rack and data storage media drives; determining if the request is for verified data storage media; performing the request when the request is determined to be for verified data storage media; and requeueing the request when the request is for unverified data storage media. 24. The article of manufacture of claim 23 wherein the step of identifying verified data storage media further comprises the step of determining whether a frame containing data storage media has had a door to the frame opened and designating the data storage media in a frame having had the door opened as being unverified. 25. The article of manufacture of claim 24 wherein the step of identifying verified data storage media further comprises the step of determining whether a frame containing data storage media has had a door to the frame opened and designating the data storage media in a frame not having had the door opened as being verified. 26. The article of manufacture of claim 23 wherein the request is a mount request, a data storage media being associated with the mount request. 27. The article of manufacture of claim 26 wherein the step of determining if the request is for verified data storage media further comprises the steps of: determining whether the mount is a category mount; ascertaining the next volume in the category when the mount is from a category; locating an assigned cell of the volume; resolving whether the assigned cell is included in the inventory; and performing the mount request when the assigned cell is not included in the inventory. 28. The article of manufacture of claim 27 further comprising the step of deciding whether the data storage media has been seen in the assigned cell when the assigned cell is included in the inventory. 29. The article of manufacture of claim 28 further comprising the step of performing the mount request when the data storage media has been seen in the assigned cell. 30. The article of manufacture of claim 28 further comprising the step of determining whether the data storage media associated with the mount request is from a category when the data storage media has not been seen in the assigned cell. 31. The article of manufacture of claim 30 further comprising the step of determining a next volume in the category if the data storage media associated with the mount request is from a category mount. 32. The article of manufacture of claim 30 further comprising the step of designating the data storage media associated with the mount request as being unverified when the data storage media has not been seen in the assigned cell. 33. The article of manufacture of claim 23 wherein the request is a demount request, a data storage media being associated with the demount request. 34. The article of manufacture of claim 33 wherein the step of determining if the request is for verified data storage media further comprises the step of locating a cell assigned to a volume containing the data storage media associated with the demount request. 35. The article of manufacture of claim 34 further comprising the step of establishing whether the assigned cell is included in the inventory. 36. The article of manufacture of claim 35 further comprising the step of performing the demount request when the assigned cell is not included in the inventory. 37. The article of manufacture of claim 35 further comprising the steps of determining whether the cell has been scanned and determined to be empty when the assigned cell is included in the inventory. 38. The article of manufacture of claim 37 further comprising the step of designating the data storage media associated with the demount request as being verified when the cell has been scanned and determined to be empty. 39. The article of manufacture of claim 37 further comprising the step of designating the data storage media associated with the demount request as being unverified when the cell has been scanned and determined not to be empty. 40. The article of manufacture of claim 23 wherein the step of initiating the inventory update further comprises updating a number of unverified cartridges and frames to increase the number of verified cartridges and frames after initiating the inventory update, the increase in the number of verified cartridges and frames increasing the likelihood of satisfying a request. 41. A method for managing inventory updates in a data storage media library, comprising: providing a library containing verified data storage media; experiencing an event that causes at least one verified data storage media to become an unverified data storage media; and performing an inventory update for unverified storage media while allowing verified storage media to be available requests for moving data storage media between a rack and data storage media drives, wherein the inventory update converts unverified data storage media to verified data storage media, the converted verified data storage media becoming available for the requests during the inventory update. 42. The data storage media dataserver, comprising: a data storage media library including data storage media; data storage drives; an accessor for accessing accesses the data storage media from storage slots in the data storage media library and delivering the accessed media to the data storage drives; and a library manager, the library manager providing a library containing verified data storage media, experiencing an event that causes at least one verified data storage media to become an unverified data storage media and performing an inventory update for unverified storage media while allowing verified storage media to be available requests for moving data storage media between a rack and data storage media drives; wherein the inventory update converts unverified data storage media to verified data storage media, the converted verified data storage media becoming available for the requests during the inventory update. 43. An article of manufacture or computer-based user-interface, the article of manufacture comprising a computer readable medium hanging instructions for causing a computer to perform and manage inventory updates in a data storage media library, the method comprising: providing a library containing verified data storage media; experiencing an event that causes at least one verified data storage media to become an unverified data storage media; and performing an inventory update for unverified storage media while allowing verified storage media to be available requests for moving data storage media between a rack and data storage media drives, wherein the inventory update converts unverified data storage media to verified data storage media, the converted verified data storage media becoming available for the requests during the inventory update. 