The present invention provides a system for performing a desired operation in a wellbore. The system contains a downhole tool which includes a mobility platform that is electrically operated to move the downhole tool in the wellbore and an end work device to perform the desired work. The downhole tool also includes an imaging device to provide pictures of the downhole environment. The data from the downhole tool is communicated to a surface computer, which controls the operation of the tool and displays pictures of the tool environment. Novel tactile sensors for use as imaging devices are also provided. In an alternative embodiment the downhole tool is composed of a base unit and a detachable work unit. The work unit includes the mobility platform, imaging device and the end work device. The tool is conveyed into the wellbore by a conveying member. The work unit detaches itself from the base unit, travels to the desired location in the wellbore and performs a predefined operation according to programmed instruction stored in the work unit. The work unit returns to the base unit, where it transfers data relating to the operation and can be recharged for further operation.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for performing operations in a well bore in response to predetermined high level commands, said apparatus comprising: (A) a function module for being disposed in the well bore to perform an operation through a series of operation tasks; (B) a power module for energizing said function module; and (C) an artificial intelligence based control module for controlling the series of operation tasks, said control module utilizing behavior control concepts by which a control problem is decomposed into a number of task achieving behaviors all running in parallel. 2. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 additionally comprising means for generating at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter, said control module additionally being connected to said sensor module to respond to the predetermined parameter. 3. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said sensor module includes means for monitoring the operation of said function modules and wherein said control module is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from said monitoring means. 4. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said control module comprises a programmed digital computer having a control memory, an input for receiving signals from said function module and an output for conveying signals representing tasks to said function module. 5. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the well bore is characterized by a wellbore casing and said function module includes transport means for displacing said apparatus along the wellbore casing, said transport means comprising: (i) a supporting structure, (ii) transport means on said supporting structure and responsive to said control module for engaging the wellbore casing selectively to displace and affix said supporting structure along said wellbore casing in response to said control module. 6. Apparatus for performing operations in a well bore in response to predetermined high level commands, said apparatus comprising: (A) a transport module for moving within the well bore through a series of transport tasks; (B) a function module connected to dais transport module for performing an operation through a series of operation tasks; (C) a power module for energizing said transport, function and control modules; and (D) a control module for controlling the series of transport and operating tasks, said control module utilizing artificial intelligence techniques based upon behavior control concepts by which a control problem is decomposed into a number of task achieving behaviors all running in parallel. 7. Apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein said control module comprises a programmed digital computer having a control memory, an input for receiving signals from at least one of said transport and function modules and an output for conveying signals representing tasks to said transport and function modules. 8. Apparatus as recited in claim 6 additionally comprising a sensor module for producing at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter, said control module additionally being connected to said sensor module to respond to the predetermined parameter. 9. Apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein said sensor module includes means for monitoring the operation of at least one of said transport and function modules and wherein said control module is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from said monitoring means. 10. Apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein the well bore is characterized by a wellbore casing, said transport module comprising: (i) a supporting structure, (ii) transport means on said supporting structure and responsive to said control module for engaging the wellbore casing selectively to displace and affix said supporting structure along said wellbore casing in response to said control module. 