A CVD reactor includes separate reaction and pressure chambers, where the reaction chamber is contained within and isolates process or reactant gases from the pressure chamber. The reactor also includes a gas injection system which pre-heats and injects diffused process gas(es) into the reaction chamber in a somewhat vertical direction through a bottom surface of the reaction chamber. The gas injection system injects hydrogen or other appropriate gas in a vertical direction through the bottom surface of the reaction chamber. The flow of hydrogen or other appropriate gas is intermediate the flow of the process gas(es) and a surface of the reaction chamber, thereby re-directing the process gas flow parallel to the top surface of a wafer therein. In this manner, the reaction chamber does not require a long entry length for the process gas(es). This flow of hydrogen or other suitable gas also minimizes undesirable deposition on the surface of the reaction chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas injection system for injecting one or more process gases into a reaction chamber within which a wafer is processed, said gas injection system comprising: one or more first slots formed in a first portion of the bottom surface of said reaction chamber; and one or more second slots formed in a second portion of the bottom surface of said reaction chamber, said one or more second slots being positioned intermediate said one or more first slots and a side wall of said reaction chamber; wherein a first gas is injected into said reaction chamber in a direction toward said wafer through said one or more second slots and said one or more process gases are injected into said reaction chamber through said one or more first slots, said first gas serving to re-direct said one or more process gases into a flow pattern substantially parallel to a top surface of said wafer. 2. The gas injection system of claim 1, wherein said one or more first slots and said one or more second slots are formed on a same surface. 3. The gas injection system of claim 1, further comprising a heating source located adjacent said first slots, wherein said one or more process gases are pre-heated by said heating source before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 4. The gas injection system of claim 1, further comprising one or more diffuser plates located vertically to said one or more first slots, wherein said one or more diffuser plates diffuses said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 5. The gas injection system of claim 4, wherein said one or more diffuser plates are located below said one or more first slots. 6. The gas injection system of claim 4, wherein said one or more diffuser plates each have a multiplicity of openings. 7. The gas injection system of claim 1, wherein said one or more process gases are injected into said reaction chamber through each of two or more of said first slots at a flow rate independent of the flow rate through the remaining two or more of said first slots. 8. The gas injection system of claim 1, wherein said first gas is injected into said reaction chamber through said each of said two or more of said second slots at a flow rate independent of the flow rate through the remaining said two or more of said second slots. 9. A method for injecting one or more process gases into a reaction chamber within which a wafer is processed, comprising the steps of: forming one or more first slots in a bottom surface of said reaction chamber; forming one or more second slots in another bottom surface of said reaction chamber, said one or more second slots being positioned intermediate said one or more first slots and a side wall of said reaction chamber; injecting a first gas into said reaction chamber in a direction towards said wafer through said one or more second slots; injecting said one or more process gases into said reaction chamber through said one or more first slots; and re-directing said one or more process gases into a flow pattern substantially parallel to a top surface of said wafer with said first gas. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said one or more second slots are formed on a same surface as said one or more first slots. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of pre-heating said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of diffusing said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 13. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of forming one or more third slots vertical to each of said one or more first slots, wherein said one or more third slots diffuses said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said one or more third slots are formed below each of said one or more first slots. 15. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of adjusting a flow rate of said one or more process gases through each of two or more said first slots. 16. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of adjusting a flow rate of said first gas through each of two or more said second slots. 17. A method for injecting one or more process gases into a reaction chamber within which a wafer is processed, comprising the steps of: injecting a first gas into said reaction chamber in a direction towards said wafer from a first bottom portion of said reaction chamber; injecting said one or more process gases into said reaction chamber from a second bottom portion of said reaction chamber; and re-directing said one or more process gases into a flow pattern substantially parallel to a top surface of said wafer with said first gas. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of pre-heating said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of diffusing said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter said reaction chamber. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of adjusting a flow rate of said one or more process gases through each of two or more first slots. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of adjusting a flow rate of said first gas through each of two or more second slots. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein said second bottom portion is located between said first bottom portion and a side wall of said reaction chamber. 