A method of forming an oxide on a substrate. According to the method of the present invention a substrate is placed in a chamber. An oxygen containing gas and a hydrogen containing gas are then fed into the chamber. The oxygen containing gas and the hydrogen containing gas are then caused to react with one another to form water vapor in the chamber. The water vapor then oxidizes the substrate.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing the substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; generating a partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber; reacting said oxygen containing gas with said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near the surface of said substrate to form an ambient; oxidizing said substrate with said ambient; and wherein said partial pressure is less than or equal to the partial pressure at which a decrease in said partial pressure causes an increase in the oxidation rate of said substrate by said ambient. 2. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing the substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; generating a partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber; reacting said oxygen containing gas with said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near the surface of said substrate to form an ambient; oxidizing said substrate with said ambient; and wherein at said partial pressure an incremental decrease in partial pressure results in an increase in oxidation rate of said substrate by said ambient. 3. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing the substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; and generating an oxygen containing gas and hydrogen containing gas partial pressure and concentration ratio such that the oxidation rate of said substrate by an ambient created by reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas is greater than the oxidation rate of said substrate by an ambient created by reacting said concentration ratio of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas at a 100 Torr partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas. 4. A method of forming an oxide, said method comprising the steps of: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing a flow of oxygen containing gas and hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; generating a partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas; reacting said oxygen containing gas with said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near the surface of said substrate to form an ambient; oxidizing said substrate with said ambient; and wherein at said partial pressure the oxidation rate of silicon is "mass transport rate" limited. 