An apparatus for handling a tubular member uses a hollow member having a closed end. A portion of the hollow member is inflatable. The hollow member is mounted on a device which moves the hollow member from a position remote from the tubular member to a position in which the hollow member is inserted in the tubular member. The hollow member extends in the tubular member a distance less than one-half the length of the tubular member. A source of fluid is coupled to the hollow member to supply fluid to the hollow member for inflating the inflatable portion thereof. This secures the hollow member to the tubular member so that the hollow member and the tubular member move substantially in unison with one another.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for handling a tubular member, including; a hollow member having a closed end with a portion thereof being inflatable; a device having said hollow member mounted thereon, said device being movable to move said hollow member from a position remote from said tubular member to a position in which said hollow member is inserted in said tubular member with said hollow member extending in the tubular member a distance less than one half the length thereof; a source of fluid coupled to said hollow member to supply fluid to said hollow member for inflating said inflatable portion to secure said hollow member to the tubular member so that said hollow member and the tubular member move substantially in unison with one another; a tank having a supply of liquid therein, said device being adapted to immerse the tubular member in the liquid after said hollow member is secured thereto; and a chamber having said tank located therein with the temperature of said chamber being maintained higher than the temperature of the liquid in said tank. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the inflatable portion of said hollow member includes a flexible bellows. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the closed end of said hollow member includes a conical portion. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said bellows includes a portion made from a rubber material. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the fluid supplied from said fluid source includes air. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said device includes a robotic assembly. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tubular member includes a substrate for a photoconductive member. 