Method and apparatus for continuously casting metal strip. Molten metal is introduced between a pair of parallel chilled casting rolls (16) via an elongate metal delivery nozzle (18) disposed above and extending along the nip between the casting rolls (16) to form a casting pool (68) supported on the rolls and contra-rotating the rolls to produce a solidified strip (20). The molten metal is delivered into a trough (67) of the nozzle (18) through an entry nozzle (18) having an upper inlet end for receiving molten metal from a tundish, and a lower outlet end (84) extending into trough (61) of the delivery nozzle (19). The outlet end (84) of entry nozzle (18) has a bottom wall (86), elongate side walls (88) spaced inwardly from the side walls (62) of the delivery nozzle (19) and outlets (92) for molten metal in the side walls (88).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A twin roll caster for casting molten metal, the twin roll caster comprising: (a) a pair of parallel casting rolls forming a nip between them; (b) an elongate metal delivery nozzle disposed above and extending along the nip between the casting rolls for supplying molten metal to a casting pool of molten metal between the rolls, the metal delivery nozzle having a bottom wall, longitudinal side walls which extend parallel to the axes of the rolls, end walls, and outlets for molten metal in the side walls; (c) an entry nozzle for supplying molten metal to the metal delivery nozzle, the entry nozzle having an inlet end for receiving molten metal and an outlet end for supplying molten metal into the metal delivery nozzle, the outlet end extending into the metal delivery nozzle and having a bottom wall, elongate side walls spaced inwardly of the side walls of the metal delivery nozzle, and end walls, and outlets for molten metal in the side walls; and (d) a tundish for supplying molten metal to the entry nozzle at the inlet end. 2. A twin roll caster as claimed in claim 1, wherein said inlet end of the entry nozzle is generally of round tubular formation, said outlet end is generally of elongate rectangular tubular formation and those two ends are interconnected by an intermediate nozzle section defining a transition flow passage which changes progressively and smoothly from a generally circular cross-section to elongate rectangular cross-section. 3. A twin roll caster as claimed in claim 1, wherein said side walls of the entry nozzle are parallel to the side walls of the metal delivery nozzle. 4. A twin roll caster as claimed in claim 1 wherein said outlets for molten metal in the side walls of outer end of the entry nozzle comprise a series of horizontally spaced openings in each of the respective side walls. 5. A twin roll caster as claimed in claim 1, wherein the metal delivery nozzle comprises an upwardly opening elongate trough extending longitudinally of the nip between the casting rolls to receive molten metal, the bottom wall of the trough being closed and the outlets for molten metal in the longitudinal side walls of the delivery nozzle comprising a series of horizontally spaced openings in each respective side wall. 6. A twin roll caster as claimed in claim 5, wherein the outlets for molten metal in the side walls of the outlet end of the entry nozzle are out of lateral alignment with the outlets in the side walls of the delivery nozzle. 7. A twin roll caster as claimed in claim 1, wherein the delivery nozzle further comprises end outlets for molten metal in its end walls. 8. A method of casting metal strip comprising introducing molten metal between a pair of parallel chilled casting rolls via an elongate metal delivery nozzle disposed above and extending along the nip between the casting rolls to form a casting pool supported on the casting rolls and contra-rotating the rolls to produce a solidified strip delivered downwardly from the nip, wherein the delivery nozzle comprises an elongate trough with side openings for delivery of molten metal into the casting pool, molten metal is delivered to the trough of the delivery nozzle through an entry nozzle having inlet end for receiving molten metal and an outlet end extending into the trough of the delivery nozzle and having a bottom wall, elongate side walls spaced inwardly from the side walls of the delivery nozzle and outlets for molten metal in the side walls, and the molten metal is supplied to the entry nozzle so as to establish a reservoir of molten metal in the delivery nozzle trough to a height above the outlets in the side walls of the delivery nozzle. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the supply of molten metal maintains a column of molten metal within the entry nozzle which is higher than the level of the reservoir of molten metal with the delivery nozzle trough. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said column of molten metal substantially fills said outlet end of the entry nozzle. 11. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said inlet end of the entry nozzle is generally of round tubular formation, said outlet end is generally of elongate rectangular tubular formation and those two ends are interconnected by an intermediate nozzle section defining a transition flow passage which changes progressively and smoothly from a generally circular cross-section to elongate rectangular cross-section. 12. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said side walls of the entry nozzle are parallel to the side walls of the metal delivery nozzle. 