A column shift adapter is provided for a robotic test driving mechanism. The shift adapter includes first and second clamp blocks adjustably mounted to a base plate. The clamp blocks receive the shift lever through openings provided therein and are tightened down in order to securely mount the shift adapter to the shift lever. The base plate is designed to give way under excessive forces so that damage to the robotic test driving mechanism or the shift lever of the vehicle is avoided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A column shift adapter for a robotic test driving mechanism, comprising: a base plate having at least one elongated slot; a first clamp block adjustably mounted to said base plate for adjustably sliding engagement with said at least one elongated slot, said first clamp block including an upper and a lower block portion connected to one another; a second clamp block adjustably mounted to said base plate for adjustably sliding engagement with said at least one elongated slot, said second clamp block including an upper and a lower block portion connected to one another; and an arm mounting block securely fastened to said base plate and including a fastener member attached to said arm mounting block, said fastener member being adapted to be mounted to an arm of the robotic test driving mechanism; wherein said upper and lower block portions of said first and second clamp blocks each combine to define an opening for receiving a shift lever of a vehicle therein. 2. The column shift adapter according to claim 1, wherein said at least one elongated slot of said base plate includes a pair of elongated slots. 3. The column shift adapter according to claim 1, wherein said upper block portion of said first clamp block is pivotally mounted to said lower block portion. 4. A column shift adapter for a robotic drive mechanism, comprising: a base plate having a pair of elongated slots disposed therein; a first clamp block adjustably mounted to said base plate for adjustably sliding engagement with said pair of elongated slots, said first clamp block including an upper and a lower block portion connected to one another; a second clamp block mounted to said base plate, said second clamp block including an upper and a lower block portion connected to one another; and an arm mounting block securely fastened to said base plate and including a fastener member attached to said arm mounting block, said fastener member being adapted to be mounted to an arm of the robotic drive mechanism; wherein said upper and lower block portions of said first and second clamp blocks each combine to define an opening for receiving a shift lever of a vehicle therein. 5. The column shift adapter according to claim 4, wherein said upper block portion of said first clamp block is pivotally mounted to said lower block portion. 