Apparatus for a wireless computer controlled toy system is disclosed, the apparatus including a computer system operative to transmit a first transmission via a first wireless transmitter and at least one toy including a first wireless receiver, the toy receiving the first transmission via the first wireless receiver and operative to carry out at least one action based on said first transmission. A method for controlling the toy system is also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for generating control instructions for a computer controlled toy system, the method comprising: selecting at least one command from among a plurality of commands associated with a toy; generating control instructions for the toy comprising said at least one command, said control instructions including at least one command selected from among the following commands: commands instructing the toy to verbally prompt a user, and commands instructing the toy to await a verbal response from the user and to transmit the verbal response to the computer which controls the toy. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the step of selecting a toy and the step of selecting at least one command comprises utilizing a graphical user interface. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of selecting at least one command comprises: choosing a command; and specifying at least one control parameter associated with said chosen command. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein said at least one control parameter comprises at least one condition depending on a result of a previous command. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein said previous command comprises a previous command associated with a second toy. 6. A method according to claim 3 wherein said at least one control parameter comprises an execution condition controlling execution of said command. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein said execution condition comprises a time at which to perform said command. 8. A method according to claim 3 wherein said execution condition comprises a time at which to cease performing said command. 9. A method according to claim 3 wherein said execution condition comprises a status of said toy. 10. A method according to claim 3 wherein said at least one control parameter comprises a command modifier modifying execution of the command. 11. A method according to claim 3 wherein said at least one control parameter comprises a condition dependent on a future event. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein said at least one command comprises a command to cancel a previous command. 13. A method for generating control instructions for a computer controlled toy system including a computer which controls at least one toy and a computer display, the method comprising: displaying a menu indicating a plurality of commands which are selectable for the toy, said plurality of commands including commands instructing a toy to verbally prompt a user, instructing the toy to await a verbal response from the user and to transmit the verbal response to the computer which controls the toy, whereby the computer which controls the toy may perform speech recognition on the verbal response; selecting at least one command from among said plurality of commands, said at least one command including at least one command from among the following commands: commands instructing the toy to verbally prompt a user, commands instructing the toy to await a verbal response from the user and to transmit the verbal response to the computer which controls the toy; generating control instructions for the toy comprising said at least one command and transmitting said at least one control instruction to the toy. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein at least one of the step of selecting a toy and the step of selecting at least one command comprises utilizing a graphical user interface. 15. A method according to claim 13, wherein said at least one command comprises a command to cancel said previous command. 16. A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of selecting at least one command comprises: choosing a command; and specifying at least one control parameter associated with said chosen command. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises at least one condition depending on a result of a previous command. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein said condition comprises a time at which to cease performing said command. 19. A method according to claim 17, wherein said condition comprises a status of said toy. 20. A method according to claim 17, wherein said previous command comprises a previous command associated with a second toy. 21. A method according to claim 16, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises an execution condition controlling execution of said command. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said execution condition comprises a time at which to perform said command. 23. A method according to claim 16, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises a command modifier modifying execution of the command. 24. A method according to claim 16, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises a condition dependent on a future event. 25. A method for generating control instructions for a computer controlled toy system including a computer and at least one toy, the method comprising: providing a library of toy control functions, said plurality of toy control functions including functions instructing the toy to verbally prompt a user, instructing the toy to await a verbal response from the user and instructing the toy to transmit the verbal response to the computer which controls the toy, whereby the computer which controls the toy may perform speech recognition on the verbal response; selecting at least one toy control function from said library, including at least one function selected from functions instructing the toy to verbally prompt a user, instructing the toy to await a verbal response from the user and instructing the toy to transmit the verbal response to the computer which controls the toy, whereby the computer which controls the toy may perform speech recognition on the verbal response; supplying operational parameters to at least one toy control function selected from said library for operating said at least one toy; and thereafter employing said at least one toy control function selected from said library for operating said at least one toy. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the step of selecting at least one command comprises: choosing a command; and specifying at least one control parameter associated with said chosen command. 27. A method according to claim 26, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises an execution condition controlling execution of said command. 28. A method according to claim 27, wherein said execution condition comprises a time at which to perform said command. 29. A method according to claim 26, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises a command modifier modifying execution of the command. 30. A method according to claim 26, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises a condition dependent on a future event. 31. A method according to claim 26, wherein said at least one control parameter comprises at least one condition depending on a result of a previous command. 32. A method according to claim 31, wherein said previous command comprises a previous command associated with a second toy. 33. A method according to claim 31, wherein said condition comprises a time at which to cease performing said command. 34. A method according to claim 31, wherein said condition comprises a status of said toy. 35. A method according to claim 25, wherein at least one of the step of selecting a toy and the step of selecting at least one command comprises utilizing a graphical user interface. 36. A method according to claim 25, wherein said at least one command comprises a command to cancel said previous command. 