A method and system for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating movement are disclosed wherein load distributions and histories experienced by the seat are more accurately simulated. The system utilizes a robot and a robotic human body simulator including a pelvic girdle mounted at a distal end of an arm thereof wherein a seat back surface as well as a seat bottom surface are wear tested. The simulator includes a plurality of drives which receive drive control signals from a robot controller for moving a thoracic cage and femurs of the simulator relative to and independent of one another and the pelvic girdle to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating activity, the method comprising the steps of: providing a robot, including an arm with a robotic human body simulator connected at a distal end thereof; the simulator including a substantially geometrically-correct, relatively hard and relatively stiff skeletal frame structure having a thoracic cage, a pair of scapulae connected at opposite sides of the thoracic cage, a set of lumbar vertebrae connected to the thoracic cage, a pelvic girdle connected to the lumbar vertebrae, a coccyx connected to the pelvic girdle, a pair of femurs and a pair of ball-and-socket joints for connecting respective femur to the pelvic girdle; the simulator further including elastomeric plastic formed over the skeletal frame structure, the elastomeric plastic having a substantially anatomically-correct, surface geometry, and wherein at least the elastomeric plastic formed over the pelvic girdle, the coccyx and the pair of femurs has mechanical properties of bulk muscular tissue in a state of moderate contraction; and repeatedly driving the robot arm and the thoracic cage and femurs relative to and independent of one another between a withdrawn position and a plurality of seat-surface engaging positions to test wear characteristics of a seat bottom surface and a seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of: generating signals indicative of forces applied to the simulator during the step of repeatedly driving. 3. A system for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating activity, the system comprising: a robot including an arm having a distal end and at least one arm drive for moving the arm; a robotic human body simulator connected to the distal end of the arm for wear testing a seat bottom surface and a seat back surface of the seat under test, the simulator including: a substantially geometrically-correct, relatively hard and relatively stiff skeletal frame structure having a thoracic cage, a pair of scapulae connected at opposite sides of the thoracic cage, a set of lumbar vertebrae connected to the thoracic cage, a pelvic girdle connected to the lumbar vertebrae, a coccyx connected to the pelvic girdle, a pair of femurs and a pair of ball-and-socket joints for connecting respective femurs to the pelvic girdle; elastomeric plastic formed over the skeletal frame structure, the elastomeric plastic having a substantially anatomically-correct, surface geometry, and wherein at least the elastomeric plastic formed over the pelvic girdle, the coccyx and the pair of femurs has mechanical properties of bulk muscular tissue in a state of moderate contraction; and a plurality of simulator drives adapted to receive drive control signals for moving the thoracic cage and femurs relative to and independent of one another to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles; and a controller coupled to the at least one arm drive and the plurality of simulator drives and programmed with a control program to generate drive control signals so that the at least one arm drive and the plurality of simulator drives independently move the arm and the thoracic cage and femurs of the simulator, respectively, repeatedly between a withdrawn position and a plurality of seat surface engaging positions to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface for a plurality of cycles. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising a force measuring device coupled to the controller to generate signals indicative of forces applied to the simulator during the wear testing. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the force measuring device is a transducer coupled to the simulator at the distal end of the arm and having six degrees of freedom. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the transducer is a load cell. 7. A robotic human body simulator for wear testing a vehicle seat and adapted to be attached as an end effector of a robot, the simulator comprising: a substantially geometrically-correct, relatively hard and relatively stiff skeletal frame structure including: a thoracic cage, a pair of scapulae connected at opposite sides of the thoracic cage, a set of lumbar vertebrae connected to the thoracic cage, a pelvic girdle connected to the lumbar vertebrae, a coccyx connected to the pelvic girdle, a pair of femurs and a pair of ball-and-socket joints for connecting respective femurs to the pelvic girdle; elastomeric plastic formed over the skeletal frame structure, the elastomeric plastic having a substantially anatomically-correct, surface geometry, and wherein at least the elastomeric plastic formed over the pelvic girdle, the coccyx and the pair of femurs has mechanical properties of bulk muscular tissue in a state of moderate contraction; and a plurality of simulator drives adapted to receive drive control signals for moving the thoracic cage and femurs relative to and independent of one another to test wear characteristics of a seat bottom surface and a seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles. 8. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein at least one of the plurality of drives moves the thoracic cage relative to and independent of the pelvic girdle. 9. The simulator as claimed in claim 8 wherein the skeletal frame structure further includes a pair of flexible couplings for allowing relative rotary and translational motion between the thoracic cage and the set of lumbar vertebrae and between the set of lumbar vertebrae and the pelvic girdle. 10. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 and wherein each of the femurs is moved by at least one of the plurality of drives relative to and independent of the pelvic girdle. 11. The simulator as claimed in claim 10 wherein each of the femurs is moved by two of the plurality of drives relative to and independent of pelvic girdle. 12. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the thoracic cage includes a set of thoracic vertebrae, a sternum and a set of ribs interconnecting the thoracic vertebrae and the sternum. 13. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein each of the simulator drives includes a linear actuator and a servo motor for driving the linear actuator. 14. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the pelvic girdle includes a set of sacrum vertebrae and a pair of coxae connected to the set of sacrum vertebrae wherein the pair of ball-and-socket joints connect their respective femurs to respective coxae. 15. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the plastic formed over the pelvic girdle, the coccyx and the pair of femurs has an effective stiffness in a range of 6 to 140 kPa. 16. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the elastomeric plastic is a castable urethane elastomer molded over the skeletal frame structure. 17. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the mechanical properties include stiffness. 18. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the mechanical properties include damping. 19. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the elastomeric plastic is completely formed over the skeletal frame structure. 20. The simulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein at least a part of the skeletal frame structure is made from plastic. 