Control moment gyros in an array are rotated to reorient a satellite. A pseudo inverse control is employed that adds a term to a Moore-Penrose pseudo inverse to prevent a singularity.
Claims We claim: 1. A satellite attitude control comprising a plurality of control moment gyros in an array and a controller for changing a gimbal angle on each gyro, characterized in that the controller comprises signal processing means comprising: means for receiving a desired satellite attitude signal; means for producing an actual satellite attitude signal; means for producing an attitude error signal from desired satellite attitude signal and the actual satellite attitude signal; means for producing a torque command signal in response to the attitude error signal; means for producing an angular rate signal for each gyro using a pseudo inverse control law that uses said torque command signal and a Jacobean value for the angle of the a gyro, said pseudo inverse including a term that prevents a singularity in the angular rate signal; and means for rotating a gyro in the array in response to the angular rate signal. 2. The satellite control described in claim 1, further characterized in that: the term prevents the pseudo inverse from being indeterminant. 3. The satellite control described in claim 1, further characterized in that: said pseudo inverse is A.sup.T (PAA.sup.T +kI).sup.-1 P, where A is the Jacobean value of the CMG array. 4. A robotic system characterized by a plurality of actuators controlled by a signal processor according to a control law to control an element, characterized in that the signal process comprises: means for producing an error signal representing the difference between a desired and actual position for the element; means for producing a rate signal manifesting a desired rate of change in the position of the actuators in response to said error signal; means for producing a signal that controls the rate of actuator movement by each actuator using a pseudo inverse control law that uses said torque command signal and a Jacobean value for the angle of the actuator, said pseudo inverse including a term that prevents a singularity in the angular rate signal. 5. The system described in claim 1, further characterized in that: the term prevents the pseudo inverse from being indeterminant. 6. The system described in claim 1, further characterized in that: said pseudo inverse is A.sup.T (PAA.sup.T +kI).sup.-1 P, where A is the Jacobean value. 