The invention herein describes a device for fabricating microarrays of biochemical substances, consisting of a holder and one or more printing pins. The holder contains apertures with regular spacing that define the location of one or more printing pins during the printing process. The tip of each printing pin contains a sample channel that holds a predetermined volume of biological or chemical sample and a point that is machined to precision with an electronic discharge machine (EDM). The device can be attached to a motion control system for precise and automated movement in three dimensions. The flat tips of the pins are immersed in a biochemical sample such that a predefined volume of sample fills the sample channel of each pin. The holder and pins are then moved in proximity to a printing substrate whereby direct contact between the flat tips of the pins and the surface results in the transfer of a small amount of the sample onto the solid surface. The holder and pins are mass produced at high precision to ensure that the printed elements in the resultant microarray contains approximately the same quantity of sample. In one preferred embodiment, the device is employed to manufacture arrays of nucleic acids or derivatives thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for printing microarrays comprising: a holder; and one or more printing pins that are mounted in said holder, each of said one or more printing pins having an exterior sample channel for holding a predetermined volume of a sample and a flat tip. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said holder accommodates up to 32 pins. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein each of said one or more printing pins has a collar to prevent rotation of said one or more printing pins in said holder. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein said one or more printing pins is movably mounted in said holder, said one or more printing pins being movable in a vertical direction, said one or more printing pins having a rest position wherein a bottom surface of said collar contacts said holder stopping the downward movement of said one or more printing pins. 5. A method of making a printing pin comprising: providing a pin shaft; producing a point having a flat tip at a first end of said pin shaft; and producing an exterior sample channel at said point of said pin shaft, thereby creating a gap at said point. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising: forming a collar; and attaching said collar to the second end of said pin shaft. 7. The method of claim 5 further comprising adjusting the width of said gap at said point. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein said producing a point comprises forming four angular sides on said first end of said pin shaft, said four angular sides having an apex that forms a square flat tip in the approximate geometric center of said pin shaft. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said forming four angular sides comprises cutting with an electronic discharge machine (EDM). 10. The method of claim 5 wherein said producing an exterior sample channel comprises cutting with an electronic discharge machine (EDM). 