The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a gas delivery system configured to deliver a first process gas to said processing chamber; a heating system, said heating system including a heater capable of holding a wafer and capable of heating to a selected temperature; a vacuum system configured to maintain a selected pressure within said processing chamber; a controller configured to control said gas delivery system, said heating system, and said vacuum system; and a memory, coupled to said controller, comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of said substrate processing system, said computer-readable program including: a first set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to introduce said first process gas including oxygen, silicon, and dopants, during a first time period into said processing chamber to form a doped silicon oxide glass layer, wherein said first set of computer instructions includes: a first subset of computer instructions for controlling said vacuum system to maintain a pressure of between about 100-760 torr within said processing chamber during said first time period; and a second set of computer instructions for controlling said heating system to perform a heating step at a temperature of between about 900-1050.degree. C. on said doped silicon oxide layer during a second time period, said doped silicon oxide layer to be removed after said second time period. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first set of computer instructions also includes a third subset of computer instructions for controlling said heating system to heat said processing chamber to a temperature of between about 200-700.degree. C. during said first time period. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas delivery system is also configured to deliver a second process gas to said processing chamber; and wherein said computer-readable program also includes: a third set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to introduce said second process gas comprising silicon and oxygen during a third time period into said processing chamber to form an undoped silicon oxide glass layer on the doped silicon oxide glass layer, said third time period following said first time period, wherein said third set of computer instructions includes: a fourth subset of computer instructions for controlling said vacuum system to maintain a pressure of between about 50-760 torr within said processing chamber during said third time period; and wherein said second time period follows said third time period. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plasma generation system configured to form a plasma from a third process gas, said controller also configured to control said plasma generation system. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said plasma is used to etch native oxides from said substrate in said apparatus during a fourth time period, said fourth time period preceding said first time period, and wherein said plasma generation system is a remote microwave plasma system. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said third process gas includes NF.sub.3. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas delivery system is also configured to deliver a fourth process gas to said processing chamber; and wherein said computer-readable program also includes: a fourth set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to introduce said fourth process gas including fluorine or chlorine during a sixth time period, wherein said fourth set of computer instructions includes: a sixth subset of instructions for controlling said heater to heat to a temperature of between about 500-650.degree. C. during said sixth time period. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said fourth process gas comprises NF.sub.3. 9. The substrate processing system of claim 1 wherein said first set of computer instructions further includes a third subset of computer instructions for raising said heater to a temperature of at least 500.degree. C. during said first time period. 10. The substrate processing system of claim 3 wherein said third set of computer instructions further includes a fifth subset of computer instructions for controlling said heater to a temperature of between about 200.degree. C. and about 600.degree. C. during said third time period. 11. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a gas distribution system for selectively introducing reaction gases into the processing chamber; a ceramic heater for supporting a substrate, the ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; means for depositing a doped silicon oxide layer having dopant atoms on the substrate on the ceramic heater at a deposition temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. from a reaction of a first process gas including silicon, oxygen, and dopants introduced into the processing chamber from the gas distribution system; and means for controlling the ceramic heater to heat the doped silicon oxide layer to diffuse the dopant atoms into the substrate to form an ultra-shallow doped region. 12. The substrate processing system of claim 11 wherein the controlling means controls the ceramic heater to heat the doped silicon oxide layer to between about 900.degree. C. and about 1050.degree. C. 13. The substrate processing system of claim 12 wherein the controlling means controls the ceramic heater to heat the doped silicon oxide layer to between about 950.degree. C. and about 1050.degree. C. for about 1-2 minutes. 14. The substrate processing system of claim 12 wherein the controlling means controls the ceramic heater to heat the doped silicon oxide layer to about 1050.degree. C. for about 1 minute. 15. The substrate processing system of claim 11 wherein the controlling means controls the ceramic heater to heat the doped silicon oxide layer for a period of time to form the ultra-shallow region to a depth of less than about 0.1 .mu.m. 16. The substrate processing system of claim 11 wherein the controlling means controls the ceramic heater to heat the doped silicon oxide layer for a period of time to form the ultra-shallow region to a depth of less than about 0.35 .mu.m. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 11 further comprising means for removing the doped silicon oxide layer from the substrate after formation of the ultra-shallow doped region. 18. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a gas distribution system for selectively introducing reaction gases into the processing chamber; a ceramic heater for supporting a substrate, the ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; means for depositing a phosphosilicate glass layer having phosphorous dopant atoms on the substrate on the ceramic heater at a deposition temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. from a reaction of a first process gas introduced into the processing chamber from the gas distribution system; and means for controlling the ceramic heater to heat the phosphosilicate glass layer to diffuse the phosphorous dopant atoms into the substrate to form an ultra-shallow phosphorous-doped region. 19. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a gas distribution system for selectively introducing reaction gases into the processing chamber; a ceramic heater for supporting a substrate, the ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; means for depositing a borosilicate glass layer having boron dopant atoms on the substrate on the ceramic heater at a deposition temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. from a reaction of a first process gas introduced into the processing chamber from the gas distribution system; and means for controlling the ceramic heater to heat the borosilicate glass layer to diffuse the boron dopant atoms into the substrate to form an ultra-shallow boron-doped region. 