This invention relates to a composition having a nucleic acid molecule covalently coupled to a solid support by means of a covalent linkage. The nucleic acid molecule is covalently coupled to the solid support by a silane. The composition can be used in nucleic acid hybridization assays and sequencing by hybridization assays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising a nucleic acid molecule covalently coupled to a solid support by a silane selected from the group consisting of 3-mercapto-propyl-trimethoxysilane and mercapto-alkyl-trimethoxysilane. 2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of glass and plastic. 3. The composition of claim 2, wherein said glass is a microscope slide. 4. The composition of claim 2, wherein said plastic is polystyrene plastic. 5. The composition of claim 1, wherein said solid support is selected from the group consisting of a bead, a plate, a column, a pin and a dipstick. 6. The composition of claim 1, wherein more than one nucleic acid molecule is covalently coupled to said solid support. 7. The composition of claim 6, wherein said nucleic acid molecules are covalently coupled to said solid support in an array. 8. A composition comprising an array of nucleic acid molecules each nucleic acid molecule covalently coupled to a solid support by a silane selected from the group consisting of 3-mercapto-propyl-trimethoxysilane and mercapto-alkyl-trimethoxysilane. 9. The composition of claim 8, wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of glass and plastic. 10. The composition of claim 8, wherein the solid support is a 96-well microtiter plate. 11. The composition of claim 9, wherein said glass is a microscope slide. 12. The composition of claim 9, wherein said plastic is polystyrene. 13. The composition of claim 8, wherein said solid support is selected from the group consisting of a bead, a plate, a column, a pin and a dipstick. 14. A composition comprising a nucleic acid molecule covalently coupled to a solid support wherein said nucleic acid molecule is covalently coupled to said support by a silane thioether linkage. 15. A composition comprising an array of nucleic acid molecules coupled to a solid support wherein said nucleic acid molecules are covalently coupled to said support by silane thioether linkages. 16. A nucleic acid molecule covalently attached to a solid support by a mercapto silane. 