The present invention provides an approach which provides an increase in the number of usable substrates with a film, such as titanium nitride, deposited thereon at a sufficient deposition rate and where the film meets uniformity and resistivity specifications as well as providing good step coverage. In accordance with an embodiment, the present invention provides an apparatus for substrate processing. The apparatus circulates a heat exchange medium through a passage in a chamber body of a vacuum chamber, and heats a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting the substrate to a heater temperature. The heat exchange medium has a heat exchange temperature of about 60.degree. C. or less. The the apparatus also flows a gas into the chamber at a flow rate to deposit a film on a substrate, where the flow rate provides an effective temperature of the substrate lower than the heater temperature and where the film meets uniformity and resistance specifications after deposition onto a number of substrates. This number is less than twenty-five, in some embodiments, and less than ten in other embodiments. The use of the present invention thus avoids the discarding of the initial hundreds of processed substrates not meeting specifications that is typically experienced with the prior art processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a processing chamber having a chamber body; a gas delivery system configured to deliver a gas to said processing chamber; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate within said chamber; a heat exchange system including a passage in said chamber body through which a heat exchange medium may be circulated; a controller configured to control said gas delivery system, said heat exchange system, and said heater pedestal; and a memory, coupled to said controller, comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of said substrate processing apparatus, said computer-readable program including: (a) computer instructions for controlling said heat exchange system to circulate said heat exchange medium through said passage to maintain a heat exchange temperature of about 60.degree. C. or less; (b) computer instructions for heating said heater pedestal to a heater temperature; and (c) computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to flow said gas at a flow rate to deposit a film on said substrate, said flow rate providing an effective temperature of said substrate lower than said heater temperature, wherein said film meets uniformity and resistance specifications after deposition onto a number of substrates, said number being less than twenty-five. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas comprises vaporized TDMAT, and said film comprises titanium nitride. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said gas further comprises a carrier gas. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said flow rate ranges from about 0.4-2.0 liters/minute. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said gas further comprises hydrogen and helium. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said number is less than 10. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heater temperature is between 400-500.degree. C. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said heater temperature is about 450.degree. C. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plasma generation system coupled to said processing chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said plasma generation system includes an RF power supply configured to deliver RF power to the processing chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said passage is in a wall of the process chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said passage is in a lid of the process chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said lid further includes a gas feed cover plate, said cover plate including said passage. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas delivery system includes a bubbler configured to vaporize a liquid precursor. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said liquid precursor comprises TDMAT. 16. A computer readable storage medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of a substrate processing system of the type that includes a process chamber having a chamber body; a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting a substrate; a heat exchange system including a passage in said chamber body; a gas delivery system configured to introduce gases into the process chamber, and a plasma generation system; the computer-readable program including instructions for operating the substrate processing system to process the substrate in accordance with the following: computer instructions for controlling said heat exchange system to circulate a heat exchange medium through said passage to maintain a heat exchange temperature of about 60.degree. C. or less; (b) computer instructions for heating said heater pedestal to a heater temperature; (c) computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to flow a gas at a flow rate to deposit a film on a substrate, said flow rate providing an effective temperature of said substrate lower than said heater temperature, wherein said film meets uniformity and resistance specifications after deposition onto a number of substrates said number being less than twenty-five. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 16 wherein said gas comprises vaporized TDMAT, and said film comprises titanium nitride. 18. The substrate processing system of claim 17 wherein said gas further comprises a carrier gas. 19. The substrate processing system of claim 17 wherein said flow rate ranges from about 0.4-2.0 liters/minute. 20. The substrate processing system of claim 16 wherein said number is less than 10. 21. The substrate processing system of claim 16 wherein said heater temperature is between 400-500.degree. C. 