A financial and/or a commercial enterprise, such as a mutual funds operator and/or a general merchandise/product sales establishment, prices its various financial and/or commercial goods in certain basic pricing units and sells uniquely coded certificates denominated in such pricing units; which pricing units are of such nature as to be substantially unaffected by inflation. Then, at any later time the holder of such a certificate is entitled to exchange this certificate for financial and/or commercial goods equivalent in total pricing units to the denomination specified on the certificate, regardless of any intervening changes in dollar pricing of the various items of financial and/or commercial goods. Since the purchaser of a certificate helps pay for the inventory of financial and/or commercial goods underlying the certificates, each holder of such a certificate periodically receives an interest payment in the form of a pre-established probabilistic chance to win additional certificates.
Claims We claim: 1. A process comprising: a first step whereby, at an initial point in time and at a first location, an individual obtains a value certificate in exchange for an initial amount of dollar funds; the value certificate entitling the owner thereof to receive, at a subsequent point in time and at a second location, in exchange for his value certificate, either a pre-defined amount of dollar funds or a pre-defined amount of goods and/or services from among a pre-defined selection of goods and/or services; the pre-defined amount of goods and/or services being defined as that amount of goods and/or services that could be purchased from the pre-defined selection of goods and/or services by the initial amount of dollar funds at the initial point in time; the pre-defined amount of dollar funds being equal to the amount of dollar funds required, at the subsequent point in time, to purchase the pre-defined amount of goods and/or services from among the pre-defined selection of goods and/or services; and a second step whereby, at the subsequent point in time and at the second location, the owner of the value certificate does in fact exchange the value certificate either for the predefined amount of dollar funds or for the pre-defined amount of goods and/or services from the pre-defined selection of goods and/or services. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the first and the second steps are effectuated by a each one of a plurality of different individuals. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the pre-defined selection of goods and/or services is defined by some or all of the goods and services underlying the Consumer Price Index as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the pre-defined amount of goods and/or services from the pre-defined selection of goods and/or services is chosen such as to represent a value that is substantially non-varying over time. 5. An arrangement for executing the process of claim 1, comprising: first means operative to issue, to each of numerous persons, value certificates in exchange for dollar funds; the dollar funds thus received being deposited in a money-management account; each individual value certificate having a unique identification code and being denominated in a specific number of value units; each value unit representing a pre-defined amount of goods and/or services from a pre-defined basket of goods and/or services; and second means operative to supply goods and/or services to persons in exchange for value certificates; the amount of goods and/or services provided to a given person in exchange for a given value certificate denominated in a given number of value units being substantially independent of the time at which the given value certificate be exchanged for such goods and/or services; the given value certificate being redeemable by the first means, by debiting its money-management account, in an amount of dollar funds equal in purchasing power to that of the amount of dollar funds having been initially paid for this given value certificate. 6. The arrangement of claim 5 wherein the first means includes automatic teller-type machine operative, in response to certain key-board commands and insertion of a bank card, to supply a value certificate in exchange for debiting the particular bank account associated with the bank card. 7. The arrangement of claim 5 wherein: (i) the first means includes a first computer means; (ii) the money-management account is disposed at a financial services facility located remotely from the first computer means; (iii) the financial services facility has a second computer means arranged to handle the money-management account; and (iv) the first computer means is connected with the second computer means by way of two-way tele-communications means. 8. The arrangement of claim 5 wherein the first means includes means: (i) to periodically select at random one of the unique identification codes of one of the issued value certificates; and (ii) to accredit the value certificate having the chosen identification code with an additional amount of purchasing power. 9. An arrangement comprising: first means operative to issue, to each of numerous persons, value certificates in exchange for dollar funds; each individual value certificate being denominated in a specific number of value units; each value unit representing a pre-defined amount of purchasing power; and second means operative to supply goods and/or services to persons in exchange for value certificates; the amount of goods and/or services provided to a given person in exchange for a given value certificate being proportional to the given value certificate's denomination in value units and therefore substantially independent of the time at which the given value certificate be exchanged for such goods and/or services; the given value certificate being redeemable by the first means in an amount of dollar funds equal in purchasing power to that of the amount of dollar funds having been initially paid for the given value certificate. 10. An arrangement comprising: first means operative to issue, to each of numerous persons, value certificates in exchange for dollar funds; each individual value certificate being denominated in a specific number of value units; each value unit representing entitlement to a pre-defined amount of goods and/or services from a pre-defined basket of goods and/or services; and second means operative at any of plural different points in time to supply goods and/or services to persons in exchange for value certificates; the amount of goods and/or services obtainable by a given person at a given point in time in exchange for a given value certificate being proportional to the given value certificate's denomination in value units and therefore substantially independent of the time-location of the given point in time; the given value certificate being exchangeable by the first means in an amount of dollar funds equal in purchasing power to that of the amount of dollar funds having been initially paid for the given value certificate. 