A modular force sensor apparatus, method, and system are provided to improve force and torque sensing and feedback to the surgeon performing a telerobotic surgery. In one embodiment, a modular force sensor includes a tube portion including a plurality of strain gauges, a proximal tube portion for operably coupling to a shaft of a surgical instrument that may be operably coupled to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, and a distal tube portion for proximally coupling to a wrist joint coupled to an end portion.
Claims We claim: 1. A modular force sensor apparatus, comprising: a tube comprising a proximal tube portion, a distal tube portion, and a third tube portion that extends between said proximal tube portion and said distal tube portion, wherein said proximal tube portion is configured to operably couple to a shaft of a surgical instrument, wherein said distal tube portion is configured to support mounting a wrist joint of said surgical instrument to a distal end of said tube, and said wrist joint is coupled to an end portion of said surgical instrument, and wherein said third tube portion comprises a plurality of strain gauges; and a cover over the plurality of strain gauges; wherein when mounted on said surgical instrument shaft, said modular force sensor apparatus is positioned at a distal part of said surgical instrument. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the third tube portion is depressed relative to the proximal tube portion. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the third tube portion comprises a material different from a material of the shaft of the surgical instrument. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes eight strain gauges in two groups of four, with each of the strain gauges in a group being spaced apart by 90 degrees around the third tube portion. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes six strain gauges in two groups of three, with each of the strain gauges in a group being spaced apart by 120 degrees around the third tube portion. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes four strain gauges spaced apart by 90 degrees around the third tube portion. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes three strain gauges spaced apart by 120 degrees around the third tube portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each strain gauge is aligned with one other strain gauge along an axis parallel to a lengthwise axis of the third tube portion. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the primary strain sensing direction of each of the strain gauges is oriented parallel to the third tube portion lengthwise axis. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of strain gauges is selected from the group consisting of fiber optic, foil, surface acoustic wave, and semiconductor type strain gauges. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a strain gauge is selected from the group consisting of a Fabry-Perot strain gauge and a fiber Bragg grating strain gauge. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cover is comprised of material selected from the group consisting of fiberglass, a resin, and electrical shielding. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the proximal tube portion includes a plurality of grooves aligned with the lengthwise axis of the third tube portion. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wrist joint shares a common pivot axis for yaw and grip axes. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end portion of said surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 16. A modular force sensor apparatus, comprising: an inner tube including: a tube portion having a plurality of strain gauges, a proximal tube portion for operably coupling to a shaft of a surgical instrument of a robotic surgical system, and a distal tube portion; and an outer tube covering the inner tube, wherein the outer tube is fixedly coupled to the proximal tube portion, wherein the outer tube is configured for mounting a wrist joint of said surgical instrument to a distal end of said outer tube, wherein said wrist joint is coupled to an end portion of said surgical instrument so that when said modular force sensor is mounted on the shaft of said surgical instrument, said modular force sensor apparatus is positioned at a distal part of said surgical instrument, and wherein the outer tube is operably coupled to said distal tube portion of the inner tube so that said plurality of strain gauges senses lateral loads substantially without interfering axial loads from the outer tube. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the outer tube is operably coupled to the distal tube portion via an elastomer. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the outer tube is operably coupled to the distal tube portion via an annular ring comprising a low-friction material. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the outer tube is operably coupled to the distal tube portion via a low-friction coating. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the tube portion is comprised of a material different from the material of the shaft of the surgical instrument. 21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes eight strain gauges in two groups of four, with each of the strain gauges in a group being spaced apart by 90 degrees around the tube portion. 22. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes six strain gauges in two groups of three, with each of the strain gauges in a group being spaced apart by 120 degrees around the tube portion. 23. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes four strain gauges spaced apart by 90 degrees around the tube portion. 24. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of strain gauges includes three strain gauges spaced apart by 120 degrees around the tube portion. 25. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of strain gauges is selected from the group consisting of fiber optic, foil, surface acoustic wave, and semiconductor type strain gauges. 26. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein a strain gauge is selected from the group consisting of a Fabry-Perot strain gauge and a fiber Bragg grating strain gauge. 27. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the outer tube is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of fiberglass, a resin, and electrical shielding. 28. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the end portion of said surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 29. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the proximal tube portion includes a plurality of grooves aligned with the lengthwise axis of the tube portion. 