Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising a portion having at least 8 contiguous nucleobases complementary within nucleotides 771-841 of SEQ ID NO: 3 and wherein said compound inhibits the expression of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1. 2. The compound of claim 1 comprising a single-stranded modified oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2 wherein at least one internucleoside linkage is a modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 2 wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 2 wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The compound of claim 2 wherein the oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length which specifically hybridizes with at least an 8-nucleobase portion within nucleotides 771-841 of SEQ ID NO:3 encoding hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1. 11. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 12. The composition of claim 11 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 13. The composition of claim 11 wherein the compound is a modified oligonucleotide. 14. A method of inhibiting the expression of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 is inhibited. 15. A method of treating an animal having a disease or condition associated with hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the compound of claim 1 so that expression of hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 is inhibited. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the disease or condition is a metabolic disorder. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the metabolic disorder is selected from the group consisting of obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis and hyperlipidemia. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the disease or condition is osteoporosis. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the disease or condition is depression. 20. The compound of claim 5, wherein at least one modified sugar is a bicyclic sugar. 21. The compound of claim 2, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 22. The compound of claim 21, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 23. The compound of claim 21, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 