An automatic pallet inspection cell (10) comprises one or two multi axis robot arms (14, 15) which terminate in either internal or exterior pallet grippers. The robots are used to transport a gripped pallet (12) through an automated inspection station (16) which compiles a three dimensional data map of a pallet surface. A processor interprets the map and producing a recipe for the robot or robots. One or more stations (17, 18, 19) conduct pallet repair operations that are specified by the recipe. A method for levelling a pallet prior to board removal by a band saw (17) is also disclosed, characterised by rolling the pallet relative to a blade of the band saw to a first and a second roll angle, and positioning the pallet at a position which is an average of the first and second roll angles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automated pallet repair, comprising the steps of: using a scanning device to create a three-dimensional data map of a pallet for detecting gaps and protrusions in the pallet, the scanning device generating a laser beam projected onto the pallet; filtering the three-dimensional data map into a two-dimensional image of on/off values by using a dynamically created height value, corresponding to a reference plane or set threshold offset above a board surface of the pallet; creating a recipe of repair operations from the three-dimensional data map; and gripping the pallet and transporting the gripped pallet to one or more repair stations in accordance with the recipe. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering the three-dimensional data map with a Sobel or Gaussian filter to provide locations of the gaps and protrusions in the pallet. 3. A method of automated pallet repair, comprising the steps of: using a scanning device to create a three-dimensional data map of a pallet for detecting gaps and protrusions in the pallet; filtering the three-dimensional data map into a two-dimensional image of on/off values by using a dynamically created height value, corresponding to a reference plane or set threshold offset above a board surface of the pallet; creating a recipe of repair operations from the three-dimensional data map; and transporting the pallet to at least one repair station in accordance with the recipe. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising filtering the three-dimensional data map with a Sobel or Gaussian filter to provide locations of the gaps and protrusions in the pallet. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the scanning device generates a laser beam projected onto the pallet. 6. A method of automated pallet repair, comprising the steps of: using a scanning device to generate a three-dimensional data map of a pallet, the three-dimensional data map including features, dimensions and topography of the pallet; filtering the three-dimensional data map into a two-dimensional image comprising on/off values by using a dynamically created height value corresponding to a reference plane above a board surface of the pallet; generating a recipe of repair operations based on the filtered three-dimensional data map; and transporting the pallet to at least one repair station based on the recipe. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising filtering the three-dimensional data map with a Sobel or Gaussian filter to provide locations of gaps and protrusions in the pallet. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising gripping the pallet before transporting the pallet to the at least one repair station. 9. A method of automated pallet repair, comprising the steps of: using a scanning device to generate a three-dimensional data map of a pallet, the three-dimensional data map including features, dimensions and topography of the pallet; filtering the three-dimensional data map into a two-dimensional image comprising on/off values by using a dynamically created height value corresponding to set threshold offset above a board surface of the pallet; generating a recipe of repair operations based on the filtered three-dimensional data map; and transporting the pallet to at least one repair station based on the recipe. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising filtering the three-dimensional data map with a Sobel or Gaussian filter to provide locations of gaps and protrusions in the pallet. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising gripping the pallet before transporting the pallet to the at least one repair station. 