Provided is a printer assembly for a pagewidth printer, said assembly having a support frame for supporting a printhead arrangement. The support frame includes an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion separated by an internal cavity. The support frame also includes a lower arm portion and an upper wall fast with the outer and inner wall portions. The upper wall portion defines a channel for receiving printhead tiles of the printhead arrangement. The upper wall portion and arm portion have a clipping arrangement configured to receive a printed circuit board (PCB) having electronics for controlling the printhead arrangement. The support frame is configured to minimize substantial dimensional changes due to environmental changes to retain a positional relationship between individual printhead tiles of the printhead arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printer assembly for a pagewidth printer, said assembly comprising a support frame; and a printhead arrangement supported by the support frame, the support frame comprising: an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion separated by an internal cavity; and a lower arm portion and an upper wall portion fast with the outer and inner wall portions, said upper wall portion defining a channel for receiving the printhead arrangement, said upper wall portion and arm portion having a clipping arrangement configured to receive a printed circuit board (PCB) having electronics for controlling the printhead arrangement, the support frame being configured to minimize substantial dimensional changes due to environmental changes to retain a positional relationship between components of the printhead arrangement. 2. A printer assembly of claim 1, in which the components of the printhead arrangement are printhead tiles positioned in the channel. 3. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the channel is formed by the upper wall portion and two, generally parallel side walls of the support frame, said side walls arranged as outer and inner side walls of the channel. 4. The printer assembly of claim 3, wherein the two side walls have different heights with the outer side wall being taller and defining an upper portion of the outer wall portion which extends above the upper wall portion, and the inner side wall defining an upward extension of the upper wall substantially parallel to the inner wall portion. 5. The printer assembly of claim 4 wherein the outer wall portion includes a recess or groove formed along a length thereof, a bottom surface of the recess positioned at the same height as a top surface of the inner wall portion with respect to the upper wall of the channel, the recess having an upper surface which is formed as a ridge which runs along a length of the outer wall portion. 6. The printer assembly of claim 5, wherein the recess is shaped and dimensioned so that longitudinally extending tabs of a fluid channel member of the printhead arrangement are receivable within the recess to be held between the lower and upper surfaces thereof to secure the channel member in place on the support. 7. The printer assembly of claim 6, wherein the outer side wall includes a slanted portion along a top margin thereof, the slanted portion for fixing a print media guide to the support, said guide configured to assist in guiding print media across printhead integrated circuits of the printhead tiles for printing without making direct contact with the printhead integrated circuits. 8. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the clipping arrangement of the support frame and the arm portion includes lugs which extend along a length of the support frame and are positioned substantially opposite each other with respect to the inner wall portion to secure the PCB to the support frame. 