Described herein is a mobile data storage magazine for interacting with a docking station. The magazine can include a magazine frame containing a plurality of operatively interconnected disk drives, a first contact element associated with the magazine frame capable of conducting electrical power to at least one of the plurality of disk drives when engaged with a second contact element associated with the docking station wherein the first and second contact elements are adapted to cooperate in a non male/female relationship. The magazine can further comprise a first communication element capable of conducting data between at least one of the plurality of disk drives and the docking station when the first communication element is operatively linked to a second communication element associated with the docking station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile data storage magazine for interacting with a docking station of a data storage library, the docking station including conductors for providing electrical power and communication, the magazine comprising: a magazine frame comprising an opening adapted to receive a plurality of operatively interconnected disk drives; a magazine cover that substantially encases the frame, the cover comprising ventilation holes adapted to cool the drives; a contact element associated with the magazine frame for conducting electrical power from the docking station to at least one of the plurality of disk drives when the contact element is engaged with the docking station electrical power conductor in a relationship that excludes a male and female relationship; a communication element associated with the magazine frame capable of conducting data between the docking station communication conductor and at least one of the plurality of disk drives when the communication element is engaged with the docking station communication conductor in a relationship that excludes a male and female relationship. 2. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 further comprising a magazine connector apparatus capable of accommodating a plurality of said contact elements, said contact elements associated with said connector apparatus accessible to said docking station via an accommodating opening in said cover. 3. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 wherein the interconnected disk drives are inaccessible by a user when the magazine is interacting with the docking station. 4. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 wherein the conductors each comprise either a flexible conductive element or a substantially flat conductive pad. 5. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 4 wherein the flexible conductive element is a spring loaded pin. 6. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 wherein the contact element is a substantially conductive pad adapted to engage a spring loaded pin. 7. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 wherein the communication element is adapted to receive communication through either electrical or optical transmission. 8. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 wherein the mobile data storage magazine is capable of coexisting with at least one data cartridge magazine comprised by a tape magazine library wherein the mobile data storage magazine is capable of being transferred within the tape magazine library by a robotic element from at least a shelf system to at least the docking station. 9. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 8 wherein the mobile data storage magazine is substantially the same size and shape as a tape cartridge magazine sized to fit substantially within the docking station and that is capable of holding at least two data cartridges. 10. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 1 wherein the mobile storage magazine is inoperable when not engaged with the docking station. 11. A method for engaging an air cooled mobile data storage magazine with a docking station of a data storage library, comprising the method steps of: engaging at least one docking station contact element comprised by the docking station with at least one magazine contact element in a non male/female relationship to establish electrical connection; providing electrical power to at least one of a plurality of disk drives capable of being disposed in the mobile data storage magazine; establishing communication with at least the docking station via a communication connection established between at least one communication element associated with the magazine and a compatible communication element associated with the docking station. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the method step of storing data on at least one of the plurality of disk drives. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the communication connection is established through either electrical or optical transmission. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the male/female contact element associated with the magazine is disposed on a magazine connector apparatus adapted to accommodate a plurality of said non/male female contact elements, said magazine connector apparatus is accessible via an accommodating hole in a magazine frame that substantially encases the magazine. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising the method step of transferring the magazine from a storage location in a tape magazine library to the docking station in the tape library by a robotic element. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the electrical power supplied to the disk drives is solely through the electrical connection. 17. A mobile data storage magazine, for interacting with a docking station, comprising: an air vented magazine frame defining a space wherein a plurality of operatively interconnected disk drives can be disposed; a first contact element associated with the magazine frame capable of conducting electrical power to at least one of the plurality of disk drives when axially engaged with a second contact element associated with the docking station wherein the first and second contact elements are adapted to cooperate in a non male/female relationship; a first communication element associated with the magazine frame capable of conducting data between at least one of the plurality of disk drives and the docking station when the first communication element is operatively linked to a second communication element associated with the docking station. 18. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 17 wherein the mobile data storage magazine is adapted to be received by an opening in the docking station. 19. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 18 wherein the docking station is capable of pulling the mobile data storage magazine into the docking station by a pulling means to engage the first and second contact elements. 20. The mobile data storage magazine of claim 17 wherein the disk drives depend on power provided by contact made between the first and the second contact elements. 