An apparatus includes a load beam, a slider coupled to the load beam by a gimbal assembly and including an optical transducer, an optical fiber for transmitting light directly toward the transducer, and a mounting structure for adjusting the position of an end of the optical fiber. Data storage devices that include the apparatus are also included.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a load beam; a slider coupled to the load beam by a gimbal assembly and including an optical transducer; an optical fiber; and a mounting structure connected to the optical fiber and positioning an end of the optical fiber such that light is transmitted from the optical fiber directly toward the optical transducer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more welds. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more deformable struts. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical transducer includes a planar waveguide and a grating for coupling light from the optical fiber to the planar waveguide. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting structure includes a reference object for positioning an end of the optical fiber. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the reference object comprises: a second slider coupled to the optical fiber. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: first and second contacts for applying an electric current to the mounting structure. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a laser for heating the mounting structure. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical fiber is mounted along a center of the load beam. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a mounting block connected to the load beam, wherein the optical fiber is mounted to the mounting block. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a flex on suspension including a planar sheet mounted on the load beam, wherein the optical fiber is mounted to the planar sheet. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a flex on suspension including first and second planar sheets mounted on the load beam on opposite sides of the optical fiber. 13. An apparatus comprising: a motor for rotating a storage medium; a suspension arm including a load beam for positioning an optical transducer adjacent to a surface of the storage medium; a slider coupled to the load beam by a gimbal assembly and including the optical transducer; an optical fiber; and a mounting structure connected to the optical fiber and positioning an end of the optical fiber such that light is transmitted from the optical fiber directly toward the optical transducer. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more welds. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more deformable struts. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the optical transducer includes a planar waveguide and a grating for coupling light from the optical fiber to the planar waveguide. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mounting structure includes a reference object for positioning the end of the optical fiber. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the reference object comprises: a second slider coupled to the optical fiber. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: first and second contacts for applying an electric current to the mounting structure. 20. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a laser for heating the mounting structure. 