A method and apparatus generating and tracing a cleaning trajectory of a home cleaning robot the method including: controlling the home cleaning robot to straightly travel as much as a set distance from the docking station and then rotationally travel, maintaining the set distance from the docking station, until the home cleaning robot reaches one of two walls; controlling the home cleaning robot to travel as much as the set distance along the wall if the home cleaning robot reaches the wall and resume rotational-traveling around the docking station, maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increased by the set distance until it reaches one of the two walls; and repeatedly controlling the home cleaning robot to travel as much as the set distance along the wall if the home cleaning robot reaches the wall and resume rotational-traveling around the docking station, maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increased by the set distance until it reaches one of the two walls until the home cleaning robot arrives at a point where it cannot travel in a direction in which a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increases.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating a cleaning trajectory of a home cleaning robot that includes at least one sound wave receptor by using a docking station that includes at least one sound wave transmitter, the method comprising: controlling the home cleaning robot, using at least one processing device, to travel in a straight direction, substantially perpendicular to a barrier to which the docking station is attached, as much as a set distance from the docking station and then to rotationally travel, maintaining the set distance from the docking station, until the home cleaning robot reaches one of a leftmost barrier and a rightmost barrier with respect to the straight direction; controlling the home cleaning robot , using at least one processing device, to travel as much as the set distance along the leftmost barrier or the rightmost barrier if the home cleaning robot reaches the leftmost barrier or the rightmost barrier and resume rotational-traveling around the docking station, maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increased by the set distance until the home cleaning robot reaches the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier; repeatedly controlling the home cleaning robot , using at least one processing device, to travel as much as the set distance along the one of the leftmost barrier or the rightmost barrier if the home cleaning robot reaches the one of the leftmost barrier or the rightmost barrier and resumes rotational-traveling around the docking station, maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increased by the set distance until the home cleaning robot reaches the other one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier, until the home cleaning robot arrives at a point where the home cleaning robot cannot travel in a direction in which a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increases. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot is calculated based on a difference between a time when the sound wave transmitter transmits a sound wave and a time when the sound receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the sound wave transmitter. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein if an obstacle is sensed at a point while the home cleaning robot rotationally travels, the home cleaning robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is not less than the set distance, the home cleaning robot rotationally travels, maintaining a distance from the docking station equal to the set distance plus a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle had been sensed. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the difference between the time when the sound wave transmitter transmits the sound wave and the time when the sound wave receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the sound wave transmitter is measured based on a difference between the time when a predetermined time synchronization signal transmitted from the docking station is received by the home cleaning robot and the time when the sound wave is received by the sound wave receptor. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the difference between the time when the sound wave transmitter transmits the sound wave and the time when the sound wave receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the sound wave transmitter is measured based on a predetermined timing signal. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a program enabling the method is recorded on a computer-readable recording medium. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein a program enabling the method is recorded on a computer-readable recording medium. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein if the home cleaning robot senses an obstacle at a predetermined point during the home cleaning, the home cleaning robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is less than the set distance, the home cleaning robot is controlled to travel along the obstacle until it arrives at a point where a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot is the same as a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle has been sensed and then rotationally travels maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot. 9. The method of claim 1, further including tracing the cleaning trajectory by: measuring a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot using the sound wave transmitted from the docking station to the home cleaning robot; comparing the distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot with a predetermined distance; and adjusting the cleaning trajectory by generating an angular velocity command to maintain the distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot within the predetermined distance. 10. The method of tracing of claim 9, wherein the distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot is calculated based on a difference between the time when the sound wave transmitter transmits a sound wave to the sound wave receptor and the time when the sound receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the sound wave transmitter. 11. The method of tracing of claim 9, wherein a program enabling the method is recorded on a computer-readable recording medium. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the cleaning trajectory of the home cleaning robot is expressed by the following equation: {dot over (x)}(t)=v(t)cos .gamma.(t) {dot over (y)}(t)=v(t)sin .gamma.(t) {dot over (.gamma.)}(t)=w(t), wherein v(t) represents a linear velocity command, and w(t) represents an angular velocity command. 13. A mobile robot comprising: at least one sound wave receptor which receives a sound wave transmitted from a docking station; a distance calculator, which calculates a distance between the docking station and the mobile robot by using a difference between the time when docking station transmits the sound wave and the time when the sound wave receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the docking station; and a travel controller, which receives the distance between the docking station and the mobile robot from the distance calculator, controls the mobile robot so that the mobile robot travels in a straight direction, substantially perpendicular to a barrier to which the docking station is attached, as much as a set distance from the docking station, rotationally travels maintaining the set distance with the docking station until reaching one of a leftmost and a rightmost barrier with respect to the straight direction, straightly travels as much as the set distance along the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier, resumes rotational-traveling maintaining a distance between the docking station and the mobile robot increased by the set distance until reaching the other one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier. 14. The mobile robot of claim 13, wherein the travel controller outputs an angular velocity command by using a difference between the docking station and the mobile robot, received from the distance calculator, and a predetermined distance that the mobile robot is supposed to maintain from the docking station when following a predetermined cleaning trajectory, such that the mobile robot returns to the predetermined cleaning trajectory. 15. The mobile robot of claim 13, wherein the travel controller receives a calculated distance Rm between the docking station and the mobile robot from the distance calculator, compares a calculated distance R with the distance Rm that the mobile robot is to maintain from the docking station at a predetermined location, and shifts an angular velocity w(t) of the mobile robot based on whether or not Rm is larger than R. 16. The mobile robot of claim 13, wherein if the mobile robot senses an obstacle at a predetermined point, the mobile robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is not less than the set distance, the mobile robot rotationally travels, maintaining a distance from the docking station equal to the set distance plus a distance between the docking station and the mobile robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle had been sensed. 17. The mobile robot of claim 13, further comprising: a time synchronization signal receptor which receives a time synchronization signal transmitted from the docking station. 18. The mobile robot of claim 13, further comprising: a timer which is included in the mobile robot and generates the same timing signal as that provided from the docking station. 19. The mobile robot of claim 17, wherein the sound wave is an ultrasonic wave. 20. The mobile robot of claim 17, wherein the time synchronization signal is one of an infrared signal and a radio frequency signal. 21. The mobile robot of claim 13, wherein the sound wave receptor which is included in the mobile robot is an all-directional sound wave sensor. 22. A computer readable medium encoded with processing instructions for performing a method of generating a cleaning trajectory of a home cleaning robot that includes at least one sound wave receptor by using a docking station that includes at least one sound wave transmitter, the method comprising: controlling the home cleaning robot to travel in a straight direction, substantially perpendicular to a barrier to which the docking station is attached, as much as a set distance from the docking station and then to rotationally travel, maintaining the set distance from the docking station, until the home cleaning robot reaches one of a leftmost barrier and a rightmost barrier with respect to the straight direction; controlling the home cleaning robot to travel as much as the set distance along the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier if the home cleaning robot reaches the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier and resumes rotational-traveling around the docking station, maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increased by the set distance until the home cleaning robot reaches the other one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier; and repeatedly controlling the home cleaning robot to travel as much as the set distance along the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier if the home cleaning robot reaches the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier and resume rotational-traveling around the docking station, maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increased by the set distance until the home cleaning robot reaches the other one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier until the home cleaning robot arrives at a point where the home cleaning robot cannot travel in a direction in which a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot increases. 23. The computer readable medium according to claim 22, wherein the distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot is calculated based on a difference between a time when the sound wave transmitter transmits a sound wave and a time when the sound receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the sound wave transmitter. 24. The computer readable medium according to claim 22, wherein if an obstacle is sensed at a point while the home cleaning robot rotationally travels, the home cleaning robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is not less than the set distance, the home cleaning robot rotationally travels, maintaining a distance from the docking station equal to the set distance plus a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle had been sensed. 25. A mobile robot comprising: at least one sound wave receptor to receive a sound wave transmitted from at least one sound wave transmitter located at a designated location; a distance calculator to calculate a distance between the designated location and the robot by using a difference between the time when the sound wave transmitter transmits a sound wave and the time when the sound wave receptor receives the sound wave transmitted from the sound wave transmitter; and a travel controller to receive the distance between the designated location and the robot from the distance calculator, to control the robot so that the robot travels in a straight direction, substantially perpendicular to a barrier at the designated location, as much as a set distance from the designated location, rotationally travels maintaining the set distance with the designated location until reaching one of a leftmost barrier and a rightmost barrier with respect to the straight direction, straightly travels as much as the set distance along the one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier, and resumes to resume rotational-traveling maintaining a distance between the designated location and the robot increased by the set distance until reaching the other one of the leftmost barrier and the rightmost barrier. 26. The mobile robot of claim 25, wherein the travel controller outputs an angular velocity command by using a difference between the designated location and the robot, received from the distance calculator, and a predetermined distance that the robot is supposed to maintain from the designated location when following a predetermined trajectory, such that the robot returns to the predetermined trajectory. 27. The mobile robot of claim 25, wherein the travel controller receives a calculated distance R.sub.m between the designated location and the robot from the distance calculator, compares a calculated distance R with the distance R.sub.m that the robot is to maintain from the designated location at a predetermined location, and shifts an angular velocity w(t) of the robot based on whether or not R.sub.m is larger than R. 28. The mobile robot of claim 26, wherein if the robot senses an obstacle at a predetermined point during the traveling trajectory, the robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is not less than the set distance, the robot rotationally travels, maintaining a distance from the designated location equal to the set distance plus a distance between the designated location and the robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle had been sensed. 29. The mobile robot of claim 25, further comprising: a time synchronization signal receptor to receive a time synchronization signal. 30. The mobile robot of claim 25, further comprising: a timer to generate the same timing signal as that provided from the designated location. 31. The mobile robot of claim 25, wherein the sound wave is an ultrasonic wave. 32. The mobile robot of claim 29, wherein the time synchronization signal is one of an infrared signal and a radio frequency signal. 33. The mobile robot of claim 25, wherein the sound wave receptor included in the robot is an all-directional sound wave sensor. 34. The method of claim 8, wherein a program enabling the method is recorded on a computer-readable recording medium. 35. The mobile robot of claim 13, wherein if the mobile robot senses the obstacle at a predetermined point, the mobile robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is less than the set distance, the mobile robot is controlled to travel along the obstacle until it arrives at a point where a distance between the docking station and the mobile robot is the same as a distance between the docking station and the mobile robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle has been sensed and then rotationally travels maintaining a distance between the docking station and the mobile robot. 36. The computer readable medium according to claim 22, wherein if an obstacle is sensed at a point while the home cleaning robot rotationally travels, the home cleaning robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is less than the set distance, the home cleaning robot is controlled to travel along the obstacle until the home cleaning robot arrives at a point where a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot is the same as a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle has been sensed and then rotationally traveling maintaining a distance between the docking station and the home cleaning robot. 37. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein if the robot senses an obstacle at a predetermined point during the traveling trajectory, the robot travels as much as a predetermined distance along the obstacle, and if the predetermined distance is less than the set distance, the robot is controlled to travel along the obstacle until it arrives at a point where a distance between the designated location and the robot is the same as a distance between the designated location and the robot at the predetermined point where the obstacle has been sensed and then rotationally travels maintaining a distance between the designated location and the robot. 