The present invention comprises a stocker. The stocker comprises multiple container storage locations arranged in a horizontal array. The horizontal array of storage locations may be suspended from the facility ceiling or supported by the facility floor. The stocker may include one or more stocker robots for transporting a workpiece container within the stocker and/or to a material transport system. The stocker may also include features such as container elevators and conveyor loops.
Claims We claim: 1. In a fabrication facility comprising a material transport system elevated between a facility floor and a facility ceiling, a stocker for storing one or more workpiece containers, the stocker comprising: one or more elongate, first support rails, each of the one or more elongate, first support rails comprising a plurality of storage locations configured to support the one or more workpiece containers; the plurality of storage locations arranged in a horizontal array comprising at least two rows and two columns of storage locations; a conveyor loop comprising an input conveyor and an output conveyor, the input conveyor configured to receive the one or more workpiece containers from the material transport system and the output conveyor configured to transport the one or more workpiece containers from within the stocker to the material transport system; a second support rail connected to a pair of guide rails, wherein the second support rail is located in a substantially horizontal plane defined by a space between the pair of guide rails and wherein the second support rail is parallel to and located above the one or more elongate, first support rails; a container transport robot mounted to the second support rail, the container transport robot configured to transport the one or more workpiece containers in a substantially parallel direction relative to the substantially horizontal plane defined by the space between the pair of guide rails, wherein the one or more workpiece containers are stored at the stocker in distinct storage regions based on a priority associated with the one or more workpiece containers, wherein each of the one or more elongate, first support rails extends along a length defined by a x-axis of the substantially horizontal plane defined by the space between the pair of guide rails, and wherein each of the one or more elongate, first support rails comprises a longitudinal axis disposed parallel to the x-axis of the substantially horizontal plane defined by the space between the pair of guide rails. 2. The stocker of claim 1, wherein the conveyor loop is configured to transport the one or more workpiece containers through a central portion of the stocker. 3. The stocker of claim 1, wherein a particular storage location comprises a storage shelf comprising registration features. 4. The stocker of claim 1, wherein the container transport robot is configured to transport the one or more workpiece containers between any of the plurality of storage locations, the conveyor loop and the material transport system. 5. The stocker of claim 1, wherein the container transport robot comprises a gantry robot. 6. The stocker of claim 1, wherein the plurality of storage locations arranged in the horizontal array are affixed by a frame. 7. The stocker of claim 6, wherein the frame is configured to be suspended from the facility ceiling. 8. The stocker of claim 6, wherein the frame is configured to be supported by the facility floor. 9. The stocker of claim 1, wherein the material transport system comprises a first material transport system and wherein the stocker further comprises: a workpiece container elevator configured to transport the one or more workpiece containers between the stocker and one of a process tool and a second material transport system. 10. The stocker of claim 1, wherein each of the storage locations in the plurality of storage locations that is located along a perimeter of the stocker is configured to perform one or more of loading and unloading the one or more workpiece containers. 11. The stocker of claim 1, wherein the stocker is configured to provide local buffering for a process tool. 