A method of maintaining a status of a product item is provided. The product item includes an associated interface surface which has coded data including a plurality of coded data portions indicative of the product item's identity. The method includes, in a sensing device, sensing at least one coded data portion, generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity therefrom, and transferring the indicating data to a computer system. The computer system is responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store. Each coded data portion is indicative of the respective position. The method further includes, generating in the sensing device and using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of at least one of a position of the sensed coded data portion on the interface surface and a position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of maintaining a status of a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item, the method including, in a sensing device: sensing at least one coded data portion; generating, using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of the product item identity; and transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store, wherein each coded data portion is indicative of the respective position, and wherein the method includes, generating in the sensing device and using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of at least one of a position of the sensed coded data portion on the interface surface and a position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: sensing at least one coded data portion; and generating the indicating data using the sensed coded data portion. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data: position data indicative of at least one of: the position of the sensed coded data portion on the interface surface; and the position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface; and identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; and updating, using the identity data and the position data, the status information. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: selecting a status mode; and generating indicating data indicative of the selected status mode. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the method includes, selecting the status mode by at least one of: using an input provided on the sensing device; and sensing an interface surface, the interface surface including coded data disposed thereon or therein, the sensing device being responsive to the coded data to select the sensing mode. 6. The method of claim 4, the method including, in the computer system: receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data: identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; and mode data indicative of the status mode; updating, using the identity data and the mode data, the status information. 7. The method of claim 1, the method including, in the computer system: selecting a status mode; receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data, identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; updating, using the identity data and the mode data, the status information. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the method includes, selecting the status mode by at least one of: using an input provided on the computer system; and in the computer system: receiving mode indicating data from a sensing device, the sensing device being responsive to sensing of coded data provided on a respective mode interface surface to generate indicating data indicative of the status mode; generating, using the received indicating data, mode data indicative of the status mode; and using the mode data to select the status mode. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least part of the product status information represents an inventory. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: determining, using the indicating data, identity data indicative of the product item identity; and updating the inventory using the identity data. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the inventory includes at least an indication of a predetermined number of product items of respective product types, the method including, in the computer system: determining, using the indicating data, the product item type; determining the number of product items of the respective product item type; comparing the number of product items to the predetermined number; and in response to the comparison, at least one of: providing an indication of the product item type on a shopping list; updating the product status information; and taking no action. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least part of the product status information represents a shopping list. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: determining, using the indicating data, identity data indicative of the product item identity; and updating the shopping list using the identity data. 