A position determining system for a vehicle comprises an imaging unit for collecting image data. A wireless device reads or interrogates a radio frequency identification tag. An identification module determines whether the collected image data contains a visual landmark. A confirmation module determines whether the identified visual landmark is associated with a corresponding radio frequency identification tag having a particular tag identifier. A range finder or distance estimator determines a position offset of the vehicle with respect to the identified visual landmark. A data processor determines a vehicular position of the vehicle based on the determined position offset and a stored reference position associated with at least one of the visual landmark and the radio frequency identification tag.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A position determining system for a vehicle, the system comprising: an imaging unit for collecting image data from a vehicle; a wireless device for reading a radio frequency identification tag; an image processor for determining whether the collected image data contains a visual landmark; a confirmation module for determining whether the identified visual landmark is associated with a corresponding radio frequency identification tag having a particular tag identifier; a range finder for determining a position offset of the vehicle with respect to the identified visual landmark; a data processor for determining a vehicular position of the vehicle based on the determined position offset and a stored reference position associated with at least one of the visual landmark and the radio frequency identification tag. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the imaging unit comprises a camera that captures image data in at least one of the visual light spectrum and the infra-red light spectrum. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein the wireless device comprises a reader for reading the radio frequency identification tag. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein the range finder comprises a laser range finder for determining a multidimensional position of the visual landmark with respect to the vehicle. 5. The system according to claim 1 wherein the visual landmark comprises a pattern of colored regions distinctive from a background region in an indoor environment. 6. The system according to claim 1 wherein the visual landmark comprise a pattern of colored regions in a different portion of the color wheel from the background region. 7. The system according to claim 6 wherein the visual landmark comprises a pattern of colored regions selected from the group of blue and magenta and wherein the background comprises a warehouse, a retail store, or a storage location. 8. The system according to claim 1 further comprising: a storage device for storing a landmark definition of the visual landmark, a tag identifier associated with the visual landmark, and a reference position associated with the visual landmark. 9. The system according to claim 1 further comprising: a wireless communications interface for obtaining reference position data associated with at least one of the corresponding visual landmark and the corresponding particular tag identifier. 10. The system according to claim 1 further comprising: a central controller for tracking a traffic status of one or more vehicles; a recorder associated with the radio frequency identification tag for recording visit information of the vehicle with a time stamp and vehicle identifier assigned to the vehicle; and a communications interface for communicating the recorded visit information to the central controller. 11. The system according to claim 10 wherein the time stamp and the vehicle identifier is used to track a route of the vehicle throughout an indoor environment during a period of time. 12. The system according to claim 10 further comprising: a display for displaying the visual landmark; and a traffic routing module for generating a control signal or control data to the control the displayed visual landmark to direct or signal the vehicle. 13. A position determining method for a vehicle, the method comprising: collecting image data from a vehicle; reading a radio frequency identification tag; determining whether the collected image data contains a visual landmark; determining whether the identified visual landmark is associated with a corresponding radio frequency identification tag having a particular tag identifier; determining a position offset of the vehicle with respect to the identified visual landmark; determining a vehicular position of the vehicle based on the determined position offset and a stored reference position associated with at least one of the visual landmark and the radio frequency identification tag. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the collecting comprises gathering image data in at least one of the visual light spectrum and the infra-red light spectrum. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the interrogating further comprises transmitting an interrogating signal and receiving a reply signal from the radio frequency identification tag to read the radio frequency identification tag. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein determining the range comprises determining a three dimensional position of the visual landmark with respect to the vehicle. 17. The method according to claim 13 wherein the visual landmark comprises a pattern of colored regions distinctive from a background region in an indoor environment. 18. The method according to claim 13 wherein the visual landmark comprise a pattern of colored regions in a different portion of the color wheel from the background region. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the visual landmark comprises a pattern of colored regions selected from the group of blue and magenta and wherein the background comprises a warehouse, a retail store, or a storage location. 20. The method according to claim 13 further comprising: storing a landmark definition of the visual landmark, a tag identifier associated with the visual landmark, and a reference position associated with the visual landmark. 21. The method according to claim 13 further comprising: communicating via a wireless communications channel to obtain reference position data associated with at least one of the corresponding visual landmark and the corresponding particular tag identifier. 22. The method according to claim 13 further comprising: recording a visit of the vehicle to a defined zone about the visual landmark with a time stamp and vehicle identifier. 23. The method according to claim 22 wherein the time stamp and the vehicle identifier is used to track a route of the vehicle throughout an indoor environment during a period of time. 24. The method according to claim 22 further comprising: generating a control signal or control data to the control the visual landmark to direct or signal the vehicle. 25. A position determining system for a vehicle, the system comprising: an imaging unit for collecting image data from a vehicle; a wireless device for reading a radio frequency identification tag; an image processor for determining whether the collected image data contains a visual landmark; a confirmation module for determining whether the identified visual landmark is associated with a corresponding radio frequency identification tag having a particular tag identifier; a distance estimator for determining a position offset of the vehicle with respect to the identified visual landmark; a data processor for determining a vehicular position of the vehicle based on the determined position offset and a stored reference position associated with at least one of the visual landmark and the radio frequency identification tag. 26. The system according to claim 25 further comprising: a linear feature detector to detect a linear feature in the visual landmark and to estimate an observed number of pixels associated with a detected linear feature at a given lens setting of the imaging unit; the image processor comparing the observed number of pixels associated with the detected linear feature to a reference number of pixels at the given lens setting to estimate a distance or position offset between the vehicle and the visual landmark. 