In realizing a user recognition system and a method thereof, a user feature vector is extracted from an input facial image, and at least one cluster is generated and a user feature template is enrolled. The cluster includes the feature vector as a member of it. When a user facial image is inputted, a user feature vector is extracted from the image, and a similarity between the feature vector and the user feature template is calculated. When the similarity is greater than a predetermined threshold value, a user of the user feature template is recognized as the user of the input image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of recognizing an input user from an input image, the method comprising: using a processor to perform a) capturing the input image of the input user using an image capture device and extracting a user feature vector from the input image captured by the image capture device; b) calculating a similarity between the extracted user feature vector and a user feature template of an enrolled user, the user feature template being user feature information that includes a plurality of clusters of the enrolled user, each of the clusters having a user feature vector as a member of the cluster, wherein the similarity is calculated by comparing a similarity between a centroid of each of the plurality of clusters of the user feature template and the user feature vector; and c) recognizing the enrolled user of the feature template as the input user when the similarity between the extracted user feature vector and the feature template exceeds a predetermined recognition threshold value, wherein each of the clusters represents a different facial condition of the same enrolled user, wherein when a given user is recognized in c), the method further comprises: d) capturing tracked input images of the recognized user after the recognized user has been determined to be an enrolled user by tracking the recognized user using the image capture device; e) extracting a feature vector from the captured image and re-verifying whether the captured image corresponds to an image of the recognized user; and f) when the input image is re-verified to be the same as the image of the recognized user in e), updating the user feature template of the recognized user with extracted feature vectors of the captured images wherein f) comprises: f-1) calculating a similarity between an extracted feature vector of the captured image and a cluster of the user feature template of the recognized user; f-2) searching for a winner cluster having a highest similarity, and calculating a similarity between the corresponding extracted feature vector and the winner cluster and the predetermined cluster classification threshold value; and f-3) including the corresponding extracted feature vector to the winner cluster as a member of the winner cluster when the similarity between the corresponding extracted feature vector and the winner cluster is greater than the predetermined cluster classification threshold value wherein after f-2), when the similarity between the corresponding extracted feature vector and the winner cluster is less than the predetermined cluster classification threshold value, the method further comprises generating a cluster and including the corresponding extracted feature vector to the generated cluster as a member of the generated cluster, wherein when a cluster is added and a total number of clusters exceeds a predetermined maximum number of cluster members, the method further comprises: selecting a cluster to be removed from among clusters of the user feature template based on at least more than one cluster having a highest mean similarity with other clusters and the least referred cluster in the user recognition process; and removing the selected cluster from the user feature template, wherein the cluster to be removed is selected by .times..times..times..times..alpha..function..alpha..times. ##EQU00006## wherein Cri is a contribution degree of the i-th cluster, Csi is a mean similarity between i-th cluster and other clusters, and .alpha. is a weight value. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: i) extracting one or more user feature vectors from the input image, generating at least one cluster having at least one of the user feature vectors as a member of the cluster, and enrolling a user feature template including the generated at least one cluster. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the cluster having a feature vector as a member of the cluster is generated at least once, and a similarity between the feature vector and the centroid of each cluster exceeds a predetermined cluster classification threshold value. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein i) comprises: i-1) setting a first feature vector among the feature vectors extracted from the input image as a member of a first cluster and setting the first feature vector as a first centroid of the first cluster; i-2) when there exists one or more additional feature vectors in addition to the first feature vector, calculating similarity between each one of the plurality of feature vectors and the centroid of the first cluster; i-3) after the step i-2), setting every feature vector with the calculated similarity exceeding the predetermined cluster classification threshold value as a member of the first cluster; and i-4) after the step i-2), generating a second cluster having every feature vector with the calculated similarity not exceeding the predetermined cluster classification threshold value as a member of the second cluster. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein b) further comprises calculating similarities between each of the clusters and the extracted user feature vector when one user feature template includes a plurality of clusters, and calculating a higher similarity as a similarity between the corresponding user feature template and the extracted user feature vector. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein e) comprises: e-1) extracting a feature vector from the captured images; e-2) calculating a similarity between the extracted feature vector and the user feature template of the recognized user; e-3) re-verifying whether the captured images correspond to the image of the recognized user when the calculated similarity exceeds a predetermined update threshold value. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the update threshold value is set to be greater than the recognition threshold value. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein after f-3), the method further comprises: f-4) setting a centroid of the winner cluster having the additional member; and f-5) removing a member corresponding to the reset centroid from the winner cluster when a total number of members of the winner cluster exceeds a predetermined maximum number of cluster members. 9. The method of claim 3 or 4 or 8, wherein when the cluster includes a plurality of members of feature vectors, the centroid of the cluster corresponds to a feature vector having the greatest sum of similarities of the centroid of the cluster and other members of the cluster. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the centroid is retrieved from .times..times..times..times..function..times..noteq..times..times..times.- .times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00007## wherein Ck is a cluster, c.sub.k is a centroid of the cluster Ck, and Fi and Fj: are feature vectors. 11. The method of claim 1 or 5 or 6, wherein the similarity between the user feature template and the user feature vector is calculated by .times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..times..times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00008## wherein Sk is the similarity, Ci is a cluster, C.sub.i: is a centroid of the cluster Ci, and Fq is a feature vector. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the cluster having the highest mean similarity with another cluster among the clusters of the user feature template is calculated by .times..times..times..times..function..times..noteq..times..times..times.- .times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00009## wherein Tp is a template of a user P, Ci and Cj are clusters of the template Tp, and Cp is a centroid cluster of the template Tp. 13. A system recognizing an input user from an input image, the system comprising: the system associated with processor, an image input unit capturing the input image of the input user; a database storing a user feature template as user feature information; a feature vector calculator extracting a user feature vector from the input image; a user feature information enroller generating a plurality of clusters for a user, each of the clusters having a feature vector as a member of the cluster, and storing a user feature template for the user including the plurality of clusters in the database; and a user recognizer calculating similarities between the extracted feature vector of the input image and a centroid of each of the plurality of clusters of the stored user feature template of an enrolled user, and recognizing a user of the user feature template as the input user of the input image when the similarity exceeds a predetermined recognition threshold value, wherein each of the clusters represents a different facial condition of the same enrolled user a tracking unit capturing an input image of a user when the user is recognized; a re-verification unit calculating a feature vector from the captured image, and calculating a similarity between the feature vector and a user feature template of the recognized user, and re-verifying whether the captured image corresponds to an input image of the recognized user when the similarity exceeds a predetermined update threshold value; and a user feature information update unit updating a user feature template stored in the database with the captured image when the captured image corresponds to the input image of the recognized user wherein the update threshold value is set to be greater than the recognition threshold value wherein the user feature information update unit calculates similarities between feature vectors of the captured images and clusters of a user feature template of the recognized user and searches for a winner cluster having the highest similarity, and compares a similarity between the corresponding feature vector and the winner cluster and a predetermined cluster classification threshold value, adds the corresponding feature vector as a member of the winner cluster when a similarity between the corresponding feature vector and the winner cluster is greater than the predetermined cluster classification threshold value, and generates a cluster and adds the corresponding feature vector as a member of the generated cluster when the similarity between the corresponding feature vector and the winner cluster is not greater than the predetermined cluster classification threshold value selects a cluster to be removed from among clusters of the user feature template based on at least more than one cluster having the highest mean similarity with other clusters and the least referred cluster in the user recognition process, and removes the selected cluster from the user feature template when a cluster is added and a total number of clusters exceed the predetermined maximum number of cluster members wherein a cluster to be removed is selected by the following equation: .times..times..times..times..alpha..function..alpha..times. ##EQU00010## wherein Cri is a contribution degree of the i-th cluster, Csi is a mean similarity between the i-th cluster and other clusters, and .alpha. is a weight value. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the user recognizer compares a similarity between the extracted feature vector and the stored user feature template and controls the user feature information enroller to generate a user feature template and store the cluster in the database when the similarity does not exceed the recognition threshold value. 15. The system of claim 13 or 14, wherein the cluster having a feature vector as a member of the cluster is generated at least once, and a similarity between the feature vector and the centroid of each cluster exceeds a predetermined cluster classification threshold value. 16. The system of claim 13 or 14, wherein the user recognizer calculates a highest similarity between the user feature template and the extracted user feature vector by calculating similarities between each of the centroids of each cluster and the extracted user feature vector when a user feature template includes a plurality of clusters, and when the highest similarity exceeds the recognition threshold value, recognizes an enrolled user of the user feature template as the input user of the input image. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the user feature information update unit sets a centroid of the cluster including the additional member, and removes a member corresponding to the reset centroid from the winner cluster when total members of the winner cluster exceed a predetermined maximum number of cluster members. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein, when the cluster has a plurality of members, a centroid of the cluster corresponds to a feature vector having the greatest sum of similarities between the feature vector and the plurality of members of the cluster, and the centroid is derived from the following equation: .times..times..times..times..function..times..noteq..times..times..times.- .times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00011## wherein Ck is a cluster, c.sub.k is a centroid of the cluster Ck, and Fi and Fj are feature vectors. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein a similarity between the user feature template and the user feature vector is calculated from the following equation: .times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..times..times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00012## wherein Skis a similarity, Ci is a cluster, c.sub.i is a centroid of the cluster Ci, and Fq is a feature vector. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein a cluster having the highest mean similarity among other clusters of the user feature template is calculated from the following equation: .times..times..times..times..function..times..noteq..times..times..times.- .times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00013## wherein Tp is a template of user P, Ci, Cj are clusters of the template Tp, and the cluster Cp is a centroid cluster of the template Tp. 