Embodiments of the invention include a chamber body having at least one of a top or bottom decoupled from the sidewalls of the chamber body. The invention is suitable for use as a load lock chamber, substrate transfer chamber and vacuum processing chambers, among others.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A load lock chamber comprising: a tubular first body having at least two substrate access ports formed therein; a first plate sealingly disposed on an upper end surface of the first body; a bottom plate sealingly disposed on a lower end surface of the first body, wherein the plates and body enclose a substrate transfer chamber; and a plurality of fasteners clamping the first body between the first and bottom plates, wherein at least one of the first and bottom plates is coupled to the body in a manner that permits lateral movement of at least one of the plates relative to the body. 2. The load lock chamber of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of spacers disposed between the first plate and the upper end surface of the first body. 3. The load lock chamber of claim 2, wherein the spacers maintain the first plate and the upper end surface of the first body in a spaced-apart relation. 4. The load lock chamber of claim 2, wherein the plurality of spacers further comprises: at least two spacers vertically stacked between the first body and the first plate. 5. The load lock chamber of claim 4, wherein the spacers have lower sliding resistance between each other than a sliding resistance between the spacer and at least one of the first body or first plate. 6. The load lock chamber of claim 4, wherein the spacers are fabricated from stainless steel, and the first plate and first body are fabricated from aluminum. 7. The load lock chamber of claim 4, wherein one of the plurality of fasteners passes through a passage formed through the stacked spacers. 8. The load lock chamber of claim 4 further comprising: a first seal sealing the first plate to the first body, the first seal positioned inward of the plurality of spacers. 9. The load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the first plate further comprises: at least one slot formed therethrough inward of the first body; and a seal coupled to the first plate and preventing fluid passage through the slot. 10. A load lock chamber comprising: a tubular first body having at least two substrate access ports formed therein; a first plate sealingly disposed on an upper end surface of the first body; a bottom plate sealingly disposed on a lower end surface of the first body, wherein the plates and body enclose a substrate transfer chamber; a plurality of fasteners clamping the first body between the first and bottom plates; a second tubular body having a lower end sealingly disposed on the first plate, the second body having two substrate access ports formed therein; and a second plate sealingly disposed on an upper end of the second body, the first plate, second plate and second body defining a second substrate transfer chamber. 11. The load lock chamber of claim 10, wherein the plurality of fasteners clamps the first plate between the first and second bodies. 12. The load lock chamber of claim 10 further comprising: a second plurality of spacers disposed between the lower end of the second body and the first plate and maintaining the first plate and second body in a spaced-apart relation. 13. A load lock chamber comprising: a tubular first body having at least two substrate access ports formed therein; a first plate sealingly disposed on an upper end surface of the first body; a bottom plate sealingly disposed on a lower end surface of the first body, wherein the plates and body enclose a substrate transfer chamber; and a plurality of fasteners clamping the first body between the first and bottom plates; wherein the plates are not welded to the first body and at least one of the first and bottom plates is coupled to the body in a manner that permits lateral movement of at least one of the plates relative to the body. 14. The load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the plurality of fasteners further comprises bolts. 15. The load lock chamber of claim 1 further comprising: at least one stiffening member coupled to an exterior of the first body adjacent to one of the substrate access ports formed therein. 16. A load lock chamber comprising: a first chamber body having four walls, an open top and an open bottom; a bottom plate disposed below the first chamber body, the bottom plate and the first chamber body disposed in a spaced apart relation; a first seal circumscribing the open bottom and sealingly engaged with the bottom plate and the first chamber body; a first plate disposed above the first chamber body, the first plate and the first chamber body disposed in a sealed spaced apart relation; a second chamber body disposed above the first plate; a second seal sealingly engaged with the first plate and the second chamber body; a second plate disposed above the second chamber body, the second plate and the second chamber body disposed in a spaced apart relation; and a third seal sealingly engaged with the second plate and the second chamber body. 17. The load lock chamber of claim 16 further comprising: a plurality of bolts clamping the chamber bodies between the bottom plate and the second plate. 18. The load lock chamber of claim 16 further comprising: at least one spacer disposed between the first plate and the first chamber body. 19. The load lock chamber of claim 16 further comprising: at least two vertically stacked spacers separating the first plate from the first chamber body. 20. The load lock chamber of claim 10, wherein at least one of the first and bottom plates is coupled to the body in a manner that permits lateral movement of at least one of the plates relative to the body. 21. The load lock chamber of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first and bottom plates is coupled to the body in a manner that permits lateral movement of at least one of the plates relative to the body. 