A cutting tool assembly is provided for removing flash portions and gates from a molded article. The cutting tool assembly includes a holder device including an upper plate, a cylindrical collar, and a bearing disposed between the upper plate and the cylindrical collar to allow movement of the cylindrical collar relative to the upper plate. The cutting tool assembly further includes a cutting member fixedly secured to the cylindrical collar wherein movement of the cylindrical collar relative to the upper plate provides the cutting member with degrees of rotational freedom to float relative to the molded article during trimming of the flash portions and gates.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A cutting tool assembly for removing flash portions and gates from a molded article, said cutting tool assembly comprising a holder device including an upper plate fixedly secured to a force compliance device, a cylindrical collar, and a bearing received in an aperture of the upper plate and disposed between said upper plate and said cylindrical collar to allow movement of said cylindrical collar relative to said upper plate, said cutting tool assembly further including a cutting member fixedly secured to said cylindrical collar, wherein said movement of said cylindrical collar relative to said upper plate provides said cutting member with rotational degrees of freedom to float about a longitudinal axis of the cutting member relative to the molded article during trimming of the flash portions and gates, and wherein the force compliance device is for monitoring the force applied to the molded article by the cutting member and correcting any force variations. 2. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein the force compliance device includes a controller that performs the monitoring of the force applied to the molded article by the cutting member and corrects any force variations. 3. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said holder device includes a clamp for fixedly securing said cutting member to said cylindrical collar. 4. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said upper plate is fixedly secured to said force compliance device via fasteners received in apertures in the upper plate. 5. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cutting member is an ultrasonic cutter. 6. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 5 wherein said ultrasonic cutter has a frequency of up to approximately 40,000 Hz. 7. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cutting member is a knife. 8. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 7 wherein said knife includes a blade having a flat profile. 9. A cutting tool assembly as set forth in claim 8 wherein said blade includes an inner relief. 