Another embodiment of the invention relates to a vehicle. The vehicle includes a chassis supported by a plurality of wheels; an electronically controlled load handler supported by the chassis; a first transceiver located on the vehicle and configured to receive control signals configured to control the load handler; and a second transceiver located on the vehicle and coupled to the load handler. The first and second transceivers are configured transmit signals there between wirelessly and the second is further configured to transmit signals representative of the control signals to the load handler.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A load handling vehicle having a wireless control system, wherein the control system is configured to facilitate data transmission of a system command over a wireless communication link, the vehicle comprising: a load handling device for maneuvering a load; an operator interface, including a directional controller and a control module, the directional controller being configured to receive the system command from a user, wherein the control module is configured to process the system command; a first transceiver located on the vehicle and coupled to the operator interface, wherein the first transceiver is configured to transmit the system command from the operator interface to the load handling device over the wireless communication link; and a second transceiver located on the vehicle and coupled to the load handling device, the second transceiver being configured to receive the system command from the first transceiver, wherein the load handling device is configured to perform a function in response to the system command provided through the directional controller. 2. The load handling vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the control module includes a programmable digital processor. 3. The load handling vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the directional controller is a joystick. 4. The load handling vehicle according to claim 1, further including a controller area network, the controller area network being configured to provide vehicle data to the control module. 5. The load handling vehicle according to claim 4, wherein the first transceiver is configured to transmit the vehicle data over the wireless communication network to a remote monitoring system. 6. The load handling vehicle according to claim 4, wherein the first transceiver is configured to receive an inquiry relating to the vehicle data from a remote transceiver, the remote transceiver being coupled to a remote monitoring system, the remote monitoring system being configured to facilitate analysis of the vehicle data received from the control module over the wireless communication link. 7. The load handling vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to include a unique internet protocol (IP) address. 8. The load handling vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the wireless communication link operates in a frequency range between 900 MHz to 960MHz. 9. A control system for controlling a load handling device of a load handling vehicle, the load handling vehicle having a controller area network including a bus assembly, the control system being configured to facilitate data transmission using a radio frequency (RF) protocol, the data being transmitted over a wireless communication link, the system comprising: a control module coupled to the controller area network, wherein the control module is configured to retrieve vehicle data from the bus assembly of the controller area network; a first transceiver located on the vehicle and coupled to the control module, wherein the first transceiver is configured to transmit the vehicle data over a wireless communication network; and a remote transceiver configured to communicate with the first transceiver an inquiry relating to the vehicle data, wherein the remote transceiver is coupled to a remote monitoring system, the remote monitoring system being configured to facilitate analysis of the vehicle data received from the control module over the wireless communication network. 10. The control system according to claim 9, wherein the wireless communication network operates in a frequency range between 900 MHz to 960 MHz. 11. The control system according to claim 9, wherein the control module includes a programmable digital processor. 12. The control system according to claim 9, wherein the control system of the vehicle is identifiable by a unique internet protocol (IP) address. 13. The control system according to claim 9, wherein the vehicle data comprises the following: vehicle fault codes, vehicle diagnostic data, service parameter data, proximity sensor data, vehicle usage data, and system alarms. 14. A load handling vehicle, including a control system configured to provide a wireless communication link, the vehicle comprising: a chassis; a body including an occupant compartment; a power source; a plurality of drive wheels coupled to the chassis; a plurality of vehicle subsystems; a directional controller configured to receive a command from a user, in order to maneuver a vehicle subsystem; a control module including a microprocessor, the control module being coupled to the directional controller, wherein the microprocessor is configured to process the command received from the directional controller; a controller area network including a bus assembly, the controller area network being coupled to the control module, wherein the control module is configured to receive vehicle data from the controller area network; a first transceiver located on the vehicle and coupled to the control module, the first transceiver being configured to facilitate transmission of the command to at least one of the plurality of vehicle subsystems over the wireless communication link; and a second transceiver located on the vehicle and coupled to at least one of the plurality of vehicle subsystems, the second transceiver being configured to receive the command from the first transceiver, wherein at least one of the vehicle subsystems is configured to execute a function in response to the command received by the directional controller. 15. The vehicle according to claim 14, wherein the wireless communication network operates in a frequency range between 900 MHz to 960 MHz. 16. The vehicle according to claim 14, wherein the plurality of vehicle subsystems comprises the following: a hydraulic system, a work light system, a proximity sensor system, an engine control system, a transmission control system, a braking system, and a central tire inflation system. 17. The vehicle according to claim 14, wherein the first transceiver is further configured to provide transmission of the vehicle data to a remote monitoring system over the wireless communication link. 18. The vehicle according to claim 14, wherein the first transceiver is configured to receive an inquiry relating to the vehicle data from a remote transceiver, the remote transceiver being coupled to a remote monitoring system, the remote monitoring system being configured to facilitate analysis of the vehicle data. 19. The vehicle according to claim 14, wherein the control system is configured to include a unique internet protocol (IP) address. 