An apparatus and method incorporating at least two sensors that detect the presence of a substrate is provided. In one embodiment, a method for transferring a substrate in a processing system is described. The method includes positioning a substrate on an end effector in a first chamber, moving the substrate through an opening between the first chamber and a second chamber along a substrate travel path, and sensing opposing sides of the substrate travel path using at least two sensors positioned proximate to the opening, each of the at least two sensors defining a beam path that is directed through opposing edge regions of the substrate when at least a portion of an edge region traverses the beam path.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for sensing the presence of a moving substrate, comprising: moving a rectangular substrate in a linear travel path relative to a first sensor and a second sensor positioned on opposing sides of the linear travel path, the positions of the first sensor and second sensor selected to sense opposing edges of the rectangular substrate along the linear travel path; and sensing a plurality of first edge portions of the rectangular substrate with the first sensor and a plurality of second edge portions of the rectangular substrate with the second sensor as the opposing edges move parallel to the linear travel path, the second edge portions and the first edge portions being immediately inward of the opposing edges of the rectangular substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the first sensor and the second sensor defines an optical beam path that continuously senses the linear travel path. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein each optical beam path impinges at least one of a top surface or a bottom surface of the substrate during at least a portion of the time during which the substrate is moving relative to the first and second sensors. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein each optical beam path is orthogonal to the at least one of the top surface or the bottom surface that it impinges while the substrate is moving relative to the first and second sensors. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein each optical beam path passes through the at least one of the top surface or the bottom surface that it impinges. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: continuously monitoring a light beam from each of the first sensor and the second sensor to determine an optical intensity of each light beam. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: detecting a crack, a chip, or a defect in the substrate by determining if the optical intensity of the light beam from at least one of the first sensor or the second sensor is greater than the optical intensity of the light beam from the at least one of the first sensor or the second sensor in the absence of the crack, the chip, or the defect in the substrate. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the optical intensity of the light beam from at least one of the first sensor or the second sensor is not substantially attenuated when the substrate is misaligned. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein (i) the optical intensity of the light beam from the first sensor is attenuated, and (ii) the optical intensity of the light beam from the second sensor is greater than the optical intensity of the light beam from the first sensor when the substrate is misaligned. 10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: providing an alarm to a user when the optical intensity of the light beam from at least one of the first sensor or second sensor is not attenuated by the substrate. 11. A substrate processing system having an end effector disposed in a first chamber, at least a first sensor and a second sensor, and a controller configured to perform a process, the process including: moving a rectangular substrate having parallel opposing edges on the end effector along a linear substrate travel path through an opening between the first chamber and a second chamber, each edge having an orientation parallel to the travel path and an edge region immediately inwards of the edge, the first sensor and the second sensor positioned adjacent each side of the opening and spaced apart a distance to simultaneously sense defects in the opposing edge regions; sensing opposing edge regions of the rectangular substrate using the first sensor and the second sensor, each of the first sensor and the second sensor defining a beam path that is directed through parallel edge regions of the rectangular substrate when at least a portion of the edge region inward of parallel opposing edges of the rectangular substrate traverses the beam path; and monitoring a signal from each of the first sensor and the second sensor as the rectangular substrate traverses the beam path. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the monitoring the signal comprises: monitoring an optical intensity of each beam path to determine an attenuation of each beam path. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: providing an alarm to a user when the optical intensity of the beam path from the first sensor is greater than the optical intensity of the beam path from the second sensor to indicate an absence of the rectangular substrate proximate to the first sensor. 14. An apparatus for detecting substrate defects, comprising: a robot having an end effector configured to retain a rectangular substrate, the end effector operable to move the substrate along a linear substrate travel path and through an opening in a chamber; a first sensor positioned adjacent the opening in the chamber; a second sensor positioned on an opposing side of the opening, each of the first sensor and the second sensor defining an optical beam path positioned to continuously intersect a linear substrate travel path and sense a plurality of first edge portions of a rectangular substrate and a plurality of second edge portions of the rectangular substrate as the rectangular substrate moves along the travel path, the first edge portions being opposite the second edge portions and inward of parallel edges of the rectangular substrate, the first sensor and the second sensor spaced apart a distance to simultaneously sense defects in the opposing edge regions; and a controller that monitors the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and second sensor as the rectangular substrate moves along the travel path. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein each of the first sensor and the second sensor are positioned proximate a passage of a chamber to sense the rectangular substrate prior to entering the passage or after the rectangular substrate exits the passage. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the robot further comprises: a first arm connected to a first end effector configured to support the rectangular substrate and transfer the rectangular substrate through the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and the second sensor; and a second arm connected to a second end effector configured to support and move another rectangular substrate. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein each of the first sensor and second sensor comprises: a transmitter; a receiver; and a reflector, the transmitter and receiver positioned below an edge region of the rectangular substrate and the reflector is positioned above the edge region of the rectangular substrate. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the transmitter is a laser configured to emit a laser beam of light having a diameter less than about 3 millimeters when the laser beam of light impinges upon a top or bottom surface of the rectangular substrate. 19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and the second sensor impinges at least one of a top surface or a bottom surface of the rectangular substrate during at least a portion of the time during which the rectangular substrate is moving relative to the first and second sensors. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and the second sensor is orthogonal to the at least one of the top surface or the bottom surface that it impinges while the rectangular substrate is moving relative to the first and second sensors. 21. An apparatus for detecting substrate breakage and misalignment along a substrate transfer path, comprising: a transfer chamber; a movable end effector within the transfer chamber having a support surface operable to support a rectangular substrate thereon and movable within a range of motion that defines at least a portion of a substrate transfer path; a sensor system including at least two sensors positioned adjacent the substrate transfer path in a configuration such that an optical beam path of each of the at least two sensors sense at least two parallel edges of the rectangular substrate as the rectangular substrate moves along the substrate transfer path, the at least two sensors positioned adjacent each side of the substrate transfer path and spaced apart a distance to simultaneously sense defects in opposing edges of the rectangular substrate which are in a parallel orientation with the substrate transfer path; and a controller that monitors the optical beam path of each of the at least two sensors as the rectangular substrate moves along the substrate transfer path. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the at least two sensors are coupled to the transfer chamber proximate a passage of the transfer chamber to sense the rectangular substrate prior to entering the passage or after the rectangular substrate exits the passage. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the at least two sensors are coupled to an adjacent chamber proximate a passage of the adjacent chamber to sense the rectangular substrate prior to entering the passage or after the rectangular substrate exits the passage. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the adjacent chamber is a load lock chamber. 25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the adjacent chamber is a processing chamber. 26. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the at least two sensors comprise a first sensor and a second sensor, the first sensor positioned on a first side of the substrate travel path and the second sensor positioned on an opposing side of the substrate travel path. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and the second sensor impinges at least one of a top surface or a bottom surface of the rectangular substrate during at least a portion of the time during which the rectangular substrate is moving relative to the first sensor and the second sensor. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and the second sensor is orthogonal to the at least one of the top surface or the bottom surface that the optical beam path impinges while the rectangular substrate is moving relative to the first and second sensors. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the optical beam path of each of the first sensor and the second sensor passes through the at least one of the top surface or the bottom surface that the optical beam path impinges. 