An energy efficient biped robotic system with passive-dynamic locomotion includes a body having a frame. An energy recapture mechanism is suspended within the frame. The energy recapture mechanism includes a load, a mechanical energy storage mechanism that interconnects the load and the frame, and a guide means secured to the load and the frame. A mechanical energy input mechanism interconnects the load with an electric energy generating mechanism. An output means transfers the generated electric energy to an energy storage device. The robot also includes a leg connected to the body portion. The cyclical movement of the leg during passive-dynamic locomotion is transferred to the load through the mechanical energy storage mechanism, and the resulting oscillatory movement of the load is transferred by the mechanical energy input mechanism to the electric energy generating mechanism. The generated electric energy is transferred to the energy storage device for use by the robotic system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An energy efficient biped robotic system with passive dynamic locomotion comprising: a body portion, wherein the body portion includes a frame; an energy recapture mechanism suspended within said frame, wherein said energy recapture mechanism includes a load, a mechanical energy storage mechanism interconnecting said load and said frame, a guide means secured to said load for guiding movement of said load with respect to said frame, a mechanical energy input mechanism interconnecting said load with an electric energy generating mechanism for generating electric energy from a mechanical motion of the load, and an output means for transferring the generated electric energy to an energy storage device; and a leg connected to said body portion, wherein a cyclical movement of said leg during passive-dynamic locomotion is transferred to said load through the mechanical energy storage mechanism, and an oscillatory movement of said load resulting from the cyclical movement of said leg is transferred by said mechanical energy input mechanism as a mechanical energy input to said electric energy generating mechanism to generate electric energy, and the generated electric energy is transferred to said energy storage device for use by the robotic system. 2. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robotic system includes an arm operatively connected to said body portion. 3. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said frame includes a front frame section and a rear frame section, each having an upper frame member, a lower frame member, a side frame member interconnecting said upper frame member and said lower frame member, and cross members interconnecting the front frame section with the rear frame section. 4. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said oscillatory motion is vertically oriented. 5. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said energy recapture mechanism is horizontally oriented, and the oscillatory motion is horizontally oriented. 6. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said energy recapture mechanism captures rotational motion, and the oscillatory motion dives the energy generating mechanism rotationally. 7. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said load and said energy storage device are a battery. 8. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 comprising two legs connected to said body portion, wherein each leg includes first and second leg members interconnected by a knee joint, a lower end of said second leg member being interconnected to a foot by an ankle joint, an upper end of said first leg member being connected to said body portion. 9. The robotic system as set forth in claim 8 wherein the spring loading of the load during locomotion generates a periodic upward movement that alternately unweights each of the legs to increase walking efficiency. 10. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said mechanical energy storage mechanism is selectively tunable. 11. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said guide means is a vertically oriented rod extending between said upper frame member and said lower frame member, and said load moves with respect to said guide means. 12. The robotic system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said electric energy generating means is a generator, and a toothed beam interconnects said load with a pinion gear operatively connected to said generator. 