A system for training users of laparoscopic cameras includes geometric targets disposed in spaced relation upon a base such that acquiring a laparoscopic view of each geometric target requires a change in the orientation of a laparoscopic camera. Each geometric target has disposed thereon an image of the same geometric shape, and each geometric target has an orientation line disposed thereon. The system accommodates both straight and angled laparoscopes. A method for training a person includes providing a system described above and allowing the person to use the laparoscopic camera to acquire images geometric targets. A preferred method includes the steps of having the user repeatedly acquire geometric targets with a 0 degree laparoscope until the measured time is less than a first time threshold and then having the user repeatedly acquire geometric targets with an angled laparoscope until the measured time is less than a second time threshold.
Claims Therefore we claim: 1. A system for training a person in the use of a laparoscopic instrument having a laparoscopic camera and a monitor for displaying images captured by the laparoscopic camera, the system comprising: a base; a plurality of targets disposed in spaced relation on the base for viewing by the laparoscopic camera; each of the targets bearing a geometric shape; a template mountable to or displayable by the monitor, the template bearing a first orientation line; the targets and the template configured such that acquiring a laparoscopic image of each target disposed upon the base requires a change in location and angular orientation of the laparoscopic camera. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the geometric shape of each of the targets is the same. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the geometric shape comprises second orientation line. 4. The system according to claim 2, wherein each geometric shape comprises a circle. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the second orientation line lies approximately parallel to the base at approximately the mid-height of the circle. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the template compares the acquired laparoscopic image of one of the plurality of targets to a desired laparoscopic image. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the template is configured for comparing the shape of the acquired laparoscopic image of one of the plurality of targets to the shape of the desired laparoscopic image. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the template is further configured for comparing the angular orientation of the laparoscopic image of one of the plurality of targets to the angular orientation of the desired laparoscopic image. 9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the template is further configured for comparing the size of the acquired laparoscopic image of one of the plurality of targets to the size of the desired laparoscopic image. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the template comprises a first geometric shape and a second geometric shape lying within the first geometric shape, and wherein the desired laparoscopic image has a perimeter between the first geometric shape and the second geometric shape. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein each target has disposed thereon an image of a circle, and wherein on the template the first geometric shape is a circle and the second geometric shape is a circle essentially concentric with the first geometric shape. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the template is disposed on a transparent sheet. 13. The system according to claim 6, wherein the template is disposed on a transparent sheet. 14. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a a training box having a simulated port for the laparoscopic camera. 15. A method for training a person in the use of laparoscopic instruments, comprising: providing the person with a first laparoscopic camera, a simulated port for the laparoscopic camera, a first plurality of targets disposed in spaced relation on a base for viewing by the first laparoscopic camera, each of the targets bearing a geometric shape, and a template mountable to or displayable by a monitor, the template bearing a first orientation line; and having the person change location and angular orientation of the first laparoscopic camera to acquire in sequence first image of each of the first plurality of targets thereby causing the first image of each target to fit a template. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising repeating the having the person change location and angular orientation of the first laparoscopic camera until the first images are appropriately acquired in less than a first threshold time. 17. A method for training a person in the use of laparoscopic instruments, comprising: providing the person with a first laparoscopic camera, a simulated port for the laparoscopic camera, and a first plurality of targets configured for viewing by the first laparoscopic camera; having the person use the first laparoscopic camera to acquire in sequence a first image of each of the first plurality of targets so that the acquired first images fit a template; repeating the having the person use the first laparoscopic camera until the first images are appropriately acquired in less than a first threshold time; providing the person with a second laparoscopic camera and a second plurality of geometric targets configured for viewing by the second laparoscopic camera; and after the first images are acquired in less than the first threshold time, having the person use the second laparoscopic camera to acquire in sequence an image of each of the second plurality of geometric targets so that the acquired second images fit the template, wherein the first laparoscopic camera is a 0-degree laparoscopic camera and the second laparoscopic camera is an angled laparoscopic camera. 