Vision system and method. The system includes a vision system, including: a camera, a processor and memory, coupled to the camera, and an EtherCAT interface, coupled to the processor and memory, possibly contained in a chassis, and operable to couple to an EtherCAT network that provides for deterministic low-latency communication between the vision system and devices coupled to the EtherCAT network. The vision system may be configurable to operate as any of: an EtherCAT master device, an EtherCAT slave device, or a TCP/IP Ethernet device. One or more additional vision systems may couple to the EtherCAT network. The vision systems may be synchronized using an EtherCAT distributed clock technique, time-based triggered, and/or event triggered, via the EtherCAT network, e.g., in a multi-view vision, collaborative processing, control, I/O, or video servoing application, e.g., using an EtherCAT deterministic low latency closed loop feedback system, including processing, control, or I/O devices.
Claims We claim: 1. A system, comprising: a vision system, comprising: a camera; a processor and memory, coupled to the camera; a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network interface, coupled to the processor and memory, and operable to couple to a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; and at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control device, coupled to the vision system via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network provides for deterministic low-latency communication between the vision system and devices coupled to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the vision system is operable to: acquire images; determine motion control data based on information in the acquired images; deterministically send the motion control data to the at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control device via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network to control the at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control device to perform a portion of a motion control task; and repeat said acquiring, said determining, and said sending in an iterative manner to perform successive portions of the motion control task based on the information, thereby performing a visual servoing control loop with a frequency of 1 KHz or higher. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the vision system is a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based slave device. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the vision system is a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the vision system is configurable to operate as any of: a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device; a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based slave device; or a TCP/IP Ethernet device. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: one or more additional vision systems, coupled to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the vision system and the one or more additional vision systems compose a plurality of vision systems, and wherein the plurality of vision systems are synchronized using a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based distributed clock technique. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of vision systems are operable to be time-based triggered via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising: wherein the vision system comprises a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device, and each of the one or more additional vision systems comprises a respective deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based slave device, and wherein the plurality of vision systems implement a multi-view vision application with respect to a target object, wherein each of the one or more additional vision systems is operable to send vision data to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network. 8. The system of claim 6, further comprising: wherein the vision system comprises a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device, and each of the one or more additional vision systems comprises a respective deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based slave device, and wherein the plurality of vision systems are operable to perform collaborative processing with respect to a target object, wherein each of the one or more additional vision systems is operable to send vision data to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: one or more additional vision systems, coupled to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the vision system and the one or more additional vision systems compose a plurality of vision systems, and wherein the plurality of vision systems are operable to be event triggered via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising: wherein the vision system comprises a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device, and each of the one or more additional vision systems comprises a respective deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based slave device, and wherein the plurality of vision systems implement a multi-view vision application with respect to a target object, wherein each of the one or more additional vision systems is operable to send vision data to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising: wherein the vision system comprises a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device, and each of the one or more additional vision systems comprises a respective deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based slave device, and wherein the plurality of vision systems is operable to perform collaborative processing with respect to a target object, wherein each of the one or more additional vision systems is operable to send vision data to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device, coupled to the vision system via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the vision system is operable to send data on the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network for use by the at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device to perform a control function. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device, coupled to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; and one or more additional vision systems, coupled to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the vision system and the one or more additional vision systems compose a plurality of vision systems, and wherein each of the plurality of vision systems is operable to send vision data to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device, wherein the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based master device is operable to generate control data based on the received vision data, and send the control data to the at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device to perform a control function. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device, coupled to the vision system via the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; wherein the vision system is operable to send data on the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network for use by the at least one deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device to perform an I/O function. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the a vision system comprises a smart camera, comprising: the camera; the processor and memory; the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based interface; and a chassis, containing the camera, the processor and memory, and the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based interface. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network comprises an Ethernet-based fieldbus network. 17. A method, comprising: providing one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control systems, each comprising a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based interface; providing one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems, each comprising a camera, a processor and memory, and a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based interface, wherein the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control systems and the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems are coupled to a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network, composing a deterministic low latency closed loop feedback system, wherein the latency is less than or equal to 1 millisecond; the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems acquiring images of a target object, and generating visual information based on the images; the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems sending the visual information to a master deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device coupled to the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network; the master deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device computing motion control information based on the visual information, and sending the motion control information to the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control systems; and the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control systems operating according to the motion control information; wherein said one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems acquiring images, said one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems sending the visual information, said master deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device sending the motion control information, and said one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control systems operating implement a high frequency visual servoing control loop with an operating frequency greater than or equal to 1 Khz; and repeating said one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems acquiring images, said one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems sending the visual information, said master deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based device sending the motion control information, and said one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based motion control systems operating in an iterative manner, to perform a visual servoing task. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: synchronizing the one or more deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based vision systems using a deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based distributed clock technique. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the deterministic low-latency Ethernet-based network comprises an Ethernet-based fieldbus network. 