The present invention provides devices and methods for attachment of an endolumenal gastrointestinal device, such as an artificial stoma device, a gastrointestinal bypass sleeve or other therapeutic or diagnostic device, within a patient's digestive tract. In one application of the invention, an endolumenal bypass sleeve is removeably attached in the vicinity of the gastroesophageal junction to treat obesity and/or its comorbidities, such as diabetes. The bypass sleeve may be at least partially deployed by eversion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gastrointestinal implant system, for providing an endolumenal bypass from a patient's gastroesophageal junction to the patient's intestine, comprising: a flexible, tubular attachment cuff, having a proximal end and a distal end; a first plurality of apertures in the proximal end of the tubular attachment cuff, for receiving tissue anchor tension elements; an elongate, flexible bypass sleeve, separate from the cuff; a first attachment structure on the distal end of the attachment cuff, for attaching the cuff to the bypass sleeve; a second attachment structure on the proximal end of the bypass sleeve, for cooperating with the first attachment structure to attach the cuff to the sleeve; wherein the first attachment structure on the attachment cuff is configured to removably attach the cuff to the bypass sleeve; and an everting tool, configured to transform the bypass sleeve from a first, at least partially inverted configuration to a second everted configuration. 2. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein the sleeve comprises a length of at least about 50 cm. 3. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, further comprising a reinforcement element configured to distribute the force of at least one of the anchor tension elements across a surface area. 4. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 3, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a T-tag. 5. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein the first attachment structure comprises a first retention surface, and the second attachment structure comprises a second retention surface, the first retention surface configured to engage with the second retention surface to limit movement of a proximal end of the sleeve relative to the cuff when a distal end of the sleeve is advanced through a central lumen of the cuff. 6. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein the first attachment structure comprises a flange configured to engage with the second attachment structure. 7. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first attachment structure or the second attachment structure comprises a second plurality of apertures extending through a wall of said attachment cuff or tubular sleeve. 8. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first attachment structure or the second attachment structure comprises a plurality of connectors for attaching the cuff to the bypass sleeve. 9. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the plurality of connectors is selected from the group consisting of: a suture, hook, and a clip. 10. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein the first attachment structure comprises an annular ring. 11. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein the first attachment structure and the second attachment structure are configured to allow the sleeve to be removed from the cuff while the attachment cuff is attached within a gastrointestinal tract of a patient. 12. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 1, wherein the everting tool comprises a source of everting media. 13. The gastrointestinal implant system of claim 12, wherein the everting media comprises a source of liquid everting media. 