A roller coaster maintenance vehicle includes a platform with a set of wheels arranged to ride on a roller coaster track structure. The platform includes a propulsion system which allows it to traverse the track structure independent of the roller coaster propulsion system. In one embodiment, a person rides on the vehicle and controls its movement. In another embodiment the vehicle is remotely controlled. Remotely controlled vehicles preferably include one or more inspection apparatus for inspecting the track structure. Optionally, the remotely controlled vehicles also include remotely controlled repair/maintenance equipment such as a robotic arm with a power tool coupled to its free end.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle for a roller coaster having at least one track structure and a roller coaster propulsion system operatively arranged to propel roller coaster cars along said at least one track structure, said maintenance vehicle comprising: a platform including support structure configured to support at least one person; a set of wheels operatively mounted to said platform and arranged to engage and ride on said at least one roller coaster track structure, said set of wheels including at least two wheels with axes of rotation substantially orthogonal to each other; and a maintenance vehicle propulsion system mounted to said platform and arranged to propel said platform along said at least one track structure, said maintenance vehicle propulsion system being independent of the roller coaster propulsion system. 2. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 1, wherein: said maintenance vehicle propulsion system includes a motor coupled to a gear such that said gear is rotated by said motor and a cog rack coupled to the roller coaster and located such that said cog rack is engaged by said gear when said set of wheels engage said at least one track structure and said maintenance vehicle is propelled along said at least one track structure when said gear is rotated by said motor. 3. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 1, wherein: said maintenance vehicle propulsion system includes a motor coupled to a tire such that said tire is rotated by said motor and fin coupled to the roller coaster and located such that said fin is engaged by said tire when said set of wheels engage said at least one track structure and said maintenance vehicle is propelled along said at least one track structure when said tire is rotated by said motor. 4. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 1, wherein: said support structure is configured to support the at least one person in a prone or supine position. 5. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising: a controller coupled to said maintenance vehicle propulsion system and located where a person supported by said support structure can operate said controller. 6. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 5, wherein: said controller is configured to cause said maintenance vehicle propulsion system to propel said platform both forward and backward. 7. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 6, wherein: said controller is configured to select the speed of propulsion and to cause said maintenance vehicle propulsion system to stop said platform. 8. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 1, wherein: said support structure includes an inclined support coupled to said platform which is configured to support a person's torso at an angle greater than zero but less than ninety degrees relative to said platform. 9. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle for a roller coaster having at least one track structure and a roller coaster propulsion system operatively arranged to propel roller coaster cars along said at least one track structure, said maintenance vehicle comprising: a platform; a set of wheels operatively mounted to said platform and arranged to engage and ride on said at least one roller coaster track structure, said set of wheels including at least two wheels with axes of rotation substantially orthogonal to each other; a maintenance vehicle propulsion system mounted to said platform and arranged to propel said platform along said at least one track structure, said maintenance vehicle propulsion system being independent of the roller coaster propulsion system; and a tool bin coupled to said platform. 10. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one inspection apparatus; and a transceiver coupled to said at least one inspection apparatus and to said maintenance vehicle propulsion system. 11. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 10, wherein: said at least one inspection apparatus includes a video camera. 12. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 10, wherein: said at least one inspection apparatus includes thermal imaging apparatus. 13. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 10, wherein: said at least one inspection apparatus is a sound sensor. 14. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 10, further comprising: powered repair/maintenance equipment coupled to said transceiver. 15. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 14, wherein: said powered repair/maintenance equipment includes a robotic arm. 16. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 9, further comprising: a source of compressed air mounted to said platform. 17. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle for a roller coaster having at least one track structure and a roller coaster propulsion system operatively arranged to propel roller coaster cars along said at least one track structure, said maintenance vehicle comprising: a platform; a set of wheels operatively mounted to said platform and arranged to engage and ride on the at least one roller coaster track structure; a maintenance vehicle propulsion system including a motor mounted to said platform and arranged to propel said platform along said at least one track structure, said maintenance vehicle propulsion system being independent of the roller coaster propulsion system; a support structure mounted to said platform and being configured to support at least one person; and a controller coupled to said maintenance vehicle propulsion system and located where a person supported by said support structure can operate said controller, said controller being configured to cause said maintenance vehicle propulsion system to propel said platform both forward and reverse. 18. A roller coaster maintenance vehicle according to claim 17, wherein: said support structure includes a bucket configured to support at least one person standing. 19. A roller coaster inspection vehicle according to claim 18, further comprising: powered repair/maintenance equipment coupled to said platform and coupled to said transceiver. 