The device for individual conveying of elongate objects comprises: a hopper from which batches of elongate articles are extracted, which fall onto an initial tract of a conveyor belt provided with transversal seatings. The belt draws the articles towards a strongly-inclined ascending tract, along which all the articles which are not correctly inserted in the seatings are unloading. After the ascending tract thereof follows an intermediate tract, superiorly of which a television camera is arranged to monitor the transversal seatings as they transit, in order to detect each of the a presence or absence of articles and if there should be any present, a number, position and orientation thereof. In a final tract, robotic manipulating organs are provided, controlled by the television camera which remove from each of the transversal seatings full on arrival, at least one of the articles, on the basis of the coordinates provided by the vision camera, in order to transfer the article to an output position downstream, in a predetermined orientation thereof. The device further comprises a device for collecting and returning to the hopper the elongate articles not removed by the robotic organs and unloading from the conveyor belt beyond the final tract thereof.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A device for individual conveying of elongate objects, which comprises: a hopper for loosely containing the elongate articles; means for picking-up located at a lower mouth of the hopper, for supporting a pile of the elongate articles as well as being step-activated in order to extract batches of the articles from the hopper; a conveyor belt, in which a plurality of specially-dimensioned transversal seatings are afforded, which conveyor belt is ring-wound to define two consecutive branches, respectively an operative upper branch and a return lower branch, the upper branch comprising an initial tract, substantially horizontal, arranged at an input station underlying the hopper and destined to restingly receive the articles which come from the hopper, an ascending tract, wherein each transversal seating conveys at least an elongate article, arranged in a predetermined orientation, and each seating does not retain the elongate articles exceeding a maximum number and any wrongly-arranged articles, which elongate articles exceeding a maximum number and the any wrongly article drop into the input station, an intermediate tract and a final tract, situated at an unloading station of the elongate articles; sensor organs located in the input station, for detecting a minimum load level of the elongate articles and for enabling the step-activation of the means for picking-up; optical detecting organs, arranged superiorly of the intermediate tract, for detecting in each of the transversal seatings a presence or absence of elongate articles and if a presence thereof has been detected, detecting a number, a position and an orientation of the elongate articles; robotic manipulating organs located at the unloading station above the final tract of the operative upper branch, controlled by the optical detecting organs, for picking-up from each full transversal seating in arrival at least one elongate article on a basis of coordinates provided by the optical detecting organs, in order to transfer the elongate article to an output position downstream, with a predetermined orientation; means for collecting the elongate articles not picked-up by the robotic manipulating organs and unloaded by the conveyor belt beyond the final tract of the operative upper branch. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the means for picking-up are constituted by a conveyor belt which by means of a the step-motion thereof directs the elongate objects towards a slit realized laterally in the hopper, causing exit of the elongate articles from the hopper and a falling thereof towards the underlying initial tract of the conveyor belt. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein each of the transversal seatings lies in a space between two consecutive laths arranged transversally on the conveyor belt and removably associated thereto by rapid attachment means. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein a width of each of the transversal seatings, considered in a parallel direction to a development direction of the conveyor belt, is such as to enable the seating to house one only elongate article in the parallel direction. 5. The device of claim 3, wherein the rapid attachment means are constituted by at least two metal pins, parallel to one another and made solid to a lower side of each lath, the at least two metal pins being destined to insert in complementarily-shaped niches afforded in the conveyor belt and each of the niches being provided with a respective magnet arranged at a bottom of each of the niches, which magnet exerts a predetermined force of attraction on each respective pin of the pins, which force of attraction, together with the force of attraction on the other pin of the pins, determines an anchoring of the respective lath to the conveyor belt. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein it comprises adjustment organs associated to the conveyor belt which vary an inclination of the ascending tract by a minimum amount to a maximum amount according to a shape, dimensions and type of the elongate articles. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the adjustment organs comprise slotted flanges for supporting a return pulley interposed between the ascending tract and the intermediate tract, and stretcher means for maintaining a tension of the conveyor belt. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the flanges are fixed to the main body of the device such that the development direction of the slots is parallel to the inclination of the intermediate tract. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the intermediate tract is ascending with a slight inclination, such as to maintain the elongate articles contactingly against the posterior walls of the relative seatings. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the final tract is substantially horizontal. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the optical detection organs are constituted by a vision camera. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the means for collecting comprise a chute which guides the elongate articles unloaded from the conveyor belt towards a return conveyor provided to return the elongate articles internally of the hopper. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the means for collecting comprise a chute for guiding the elongate articles unloaded from the conveyor belt towards a collection container. 