The present invention is a novel device for climbing inside corners, outside corners, and a variety of surfaces. The technology presented herein relies on high friction materials, suction devices, adhesive materials, pneumatic devices, etc. Specifically, embodiments of the present invention are designed to clamp onto inside or outside corners such that the devices weight, and an optional load, can be supported. Further embodiments allow the device to climb up, down, and across corners. Moreover, embodiments that can scale flat, rough, or jagged surfaces are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pneumatic corner climber comprising: an extendable bellow comprising a first end and a second end; an upper clamp member attached to said first end comprising a first hollow compartment; a lower clamp member attached to said second end comprising a second hollow compartment; and a controller for independently increasing and decreasing pneumatic pressure of said first compartment, said second compartment, and said extendable bellow; wherein said upper and said lower clamp members comprise a high friction material having a coefficient of friction equal to or greater than one; wherein increasing said pneumatic pressure of said first and said second compartments causes said upper and said lower clamp members to securely engage a first surface and a second surface; wherein decreasing said pneumatic pressure of said first and said second compartments causes said upper and said lower clamp members to disengage said first surface and said second surface; wherein increasing said pneumatic pressure of said extendable bellow causes said upper and said lower clamp members to move away from each other; wherein decreasing said pneumatic pressure of said extendable bellow causes said upper and said lower clamp members to move towards each other; and wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle of at least about 90 degrees with respect to each other. 2. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1 wherein independently controlling said pneumatic pressure of said first compartment, said second compartment, and said extendable bellow causes said pneumatic corner climber to climb said first and said second surfaces. 3. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material comprises at least one layer. 4. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 3, wherein said layer is removable. 5. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material comprises at least one bladder. 6. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 5, wherein said bladder contains fluid. 7. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 6, wherein said fluid is selected from a group consisting of air, gel, water, gas, foam and a phase change material. 8. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material is selected from a group consisting of polyester composite PVC compound, a thermoplastic elastomer, rubber and cyanoacrilate. 9. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material comprises coefficient of friction greater than or approximately equal to the tangent of one half of an angle between said first and said second surfaces. 10. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material comprises a removably adhesive material. 11. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said pneumatic corner climber supports a structure. 12. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle less than 90 degrees with respect to each other. 13. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle greater than 90 degrees with respect to each other. 14. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second surfaces form an inside corner. 15. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material comprises a vibrating means for causing said high friction material to vibrate against said first and said second surfaces such that said high friction material traverses along said first and said second, surfaces. 16. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1, wherein said high friction material comprises ribs. 17. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 1 further comprises: at least one second pneumatic corner climber; and a tapered bracket; wherein said tapered bracket secures said pneumatic corner climber against a third surface and said at least one second pneumatic corner climber against a fourth surface; and wherein said third and said fourth surfaces are at an angle of at least about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 18. A pneumatic corner climber according to claim 17, wherein said third and said fourth surfaces comprise an outside corner. 19. A pneumatic corner clamp comprising: a clamp comprising a hollow compartment; and a controller for increasing and decreasing pneumatic pressure of said compartment; wherein said clamp comprises a high friction material having a coefficient of friction equal or greater than one; wherein increasing said pneumatic pressure of said compartment causes said clamp to securely engage a first surface and a second surface; wherein decreasing said pneumatic pressure of said compartment causes said clamp to disengage said first surface and said second surface; wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle of at least about 90 degrees with respect to each other; and wherein said high friction material comprises a vibrating means for causing said high friction material to vibrate against said first and said second surfaces such that said high friction material traverses along said first and said second surfaces. 20. A system for climbing corners comprising: a first wall; second wall; and a pneumatic corner climber comprising: an extendable bellow comprising a first end and a second end; an upper clamp member attached to said first end comprising a first hollow compartment; a lower clamp member attached to said second end comprising a second hollow compartment; and a controller for independently increasing and decreasing pneumatic pressure of said first compartment, said second compartment, and said extendable bellow; wherein said upper and said lower clamp members comprise a high friction material having a coefficient of friction equal to or greater than one; wherein increasing said pneumatic pressure of said first and said second compartments causes said upper and said lower clamp members to securely engage said first and said second walls; wherein decreasing said pneumatic pressure of said first and said second compartments causes said upper and said lower clamp members to disengage said first and said second walls; wherein increasing said pneumatic pressure of said extendable bellow causes said upper and said lower clamp members to move away from each other; wherein decreasing said pneumatic pressure of said extendable bellow causes said upper and said lower clamp members to move towards each other; and wherein said first and said second walls are at an angle of at least about 90 degrees with respect to each other. 21. A system according to claim 20, wherein independently controlling said pneumatic pressure of said first compartment, said second compartment, and said extendable bellow causes said pneumatic corner climber to climb said first and said second walls. 22. A system according to claim 20, wherein said first and said second walls form an inside corner. 23. A system according to claim 20 further comprises: a third wall; a fourth wall; at least one second pneumatic corner climber; and a tapered bracket; wherein said tapered bracket secures said pneumatic corner climber against said third surface and said at least one second pneumatic corner climber against said fourth surface; and wherein said third and said fourth surfaces are at an angle of at least about 120 degrees with respect to each other. 24. A system according to claim 23, wherein said third and said fourth surfaces comprise an outside corner. 