Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of kinesin-like 1. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding kinesin-like 1. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of kinesin-like 1 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of kinesin-like 1 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising a portion of at least 8 contiguous nucleobases complementary to an equal length portion of nucleobases 528 to 555 of SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 2. The compound of claim 1, wherein the modified oligonucleotide is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 3. The compound of claim 2, wherein the modified oligonucleotide is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 4. The compound of claim 3, wherein the modified oligonucleotide hybridizes exclusively within nucleobases 528 to 555. 5. The compound of claim 1, consisting of a single-stranded modified oligonucleotide. 6. The compound of claim 5, comprising at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 7. The compound of claim 6, wherein each modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 8. The compound of claim 5, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified sugar. 9. The compound of claim 8, wherein the at least one modified sugar is a bicyclic sugar. 10. The compound of claim 8, wherein the at least one modified sugar comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl. 11. The compound of claim 5, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified nucleobase. 12. The compound of claim 11, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 13. The compound of claim 1, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nueleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 14. The compound of claim 13, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked nucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyehtyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 15. The compound of claim 14, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 16. A composition comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising a portion of at least 8 contiguous nucleobases complementary to an equal length portion of nucleobases 528 to 555 of SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3, or a salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 17. The composition of claim 16, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 18. A method comprising administering to a human a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising a portion of at least 8 contiguous nuelcobases complementary to an equal length portion of nucleobases 528 to 555 of SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein administering the compound to the human treats a hyperproliferative disorder. 