In order to produce a gripping device for a robot or for a gantry loader that can be employed in a flexible manner, it is proposed that the gripping device should comprise at least one linearly displaceable gripping jaw and at least one pivotal gripping connection. The gripping jaw may be linearly displaced along a longitudinal axis of the gripping device by means of a linear drive to grip and release a workpiece. The pivotal gripping connection can be pivotably rotated along a pivotal axis to likewise grip and release a workpiece. In an embodiment, the pivotable gripping connection can be arranged in a plurality of different positions with respect to the housing of the gripping device so that a plurality of different gripping orientations can be achieved.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A gripping device for a robot or a gantry loader comprising at least one linearly displaceable gripping jaw and at least one pivotal gripping connection, wherein the pivotal gripping connection can be arranged in at least one first position and in at least one second position relative to a housing of the gripping device; and wherein the housing of the gripping device comprises a first through opening for the passage of the pivotal gripping connection in the first position and a second through opening for the passage of the pivotal gripping connecting in the second position. 2. A gripping device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the gripping device comprises a linear drive for the at least one linearly displaceable gripping jaw. 3. A gripping device in accordance with claim 2, wherein the linear drive comprises at least one linearly displaceable actuating rod which engages the linearly displaceable gripping jaw. 4. A gripping device in accordance with claim 3, wherein the linear drive comprises at least one drive piston which is displaceable in a drive cylinder by the effect of a hydraulic or pneumatic pressure. 5. A gripping device in accordance with claim 2, wherein the linear drive comprises at least one guide rod for controlling the linear movement of the linearly displaceable gripping jaw. 6. A gripping device in accordance with claim 2, wherein the gripping device comprises at least two linearly displaceable gripping jaws and a synchronization member for synchronizing the linear movement of the linearly displaceable gripping jaws. 7. A gripping device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the gripping device comprises a pivotal drive for the at least one pivotal gripping connection. 8. A gripping device in accordance with claim 7, wherein the pivotal drive comprises at least one movement converting device which converts the linear movement of the at least one linearly displaceable gripping jaw into a pivotal movement of the at least one pivotal gripping connection about a pivotal axis. 9. A gripping device in accordance with claim 8, wherein the movement converting device is connected to the linearly displaceable gripping jaw. 10. A gripping device in accordance with claim 9, wherein the movement converting device is connected to the linearly displaceable gripping jaw in releasable manner. 11. A gripping device in accordance with claim 8, wherein the movement converting device can be selectively arranged in at least one first position and at least one second position relative to the linearly displaceable gripping jaw, wherein, in the second position of the movement converting device, the direction of the pivotal axis, about which the pivotal gripping connection is pivoted by means of the movement converting device, is rotated with respect to the direction of the pivotal axis in the first position of the movement converting device. 12. A gripping device in accordance with claim 11, wherein the direction of the pivotal axis in the second position of the movement converting device is rotated through an angle of approximately 90 degree. with respect to the direction of the pivotal axis in the first position of the movement converting device. 13. A gripping device in accordance with claim 8, wherein the movement converting device comprises a connecting rod. 14. A gripping device in accordance claim 8, wherein the movement converting device comprises an eccentric cam. 15. A gripping device in accordance claim 8, wherein the movement converting device comprises an articulated bearing for the pivotal gripping connection. 16. A gripping device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the gripping device comprises a cover for closing the first through opening or the second through opening when the pivotal gripping connection is arranged at the second through opening or at the first through opening respectively. 