Provided is a wallpaper printer having a cabinet configured to receive replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of blank wallpaper, and a feed system defining a media path through the cabinet, the feed system having pilot guides for guiding the blank wallpaper from the cartridges past a pagewidth printhead for printing. The printer also includes a heated platen positioned in the media path downstream of the pilot guides for heating the blank wallpaper prior to printing. The printer also has a pagewidth printhead arranged in the cabinet for printing images on the blank wallpaper, and a cutter module for cutting the printed wallpaper before the feed system feeds said wallpaper into a container configured to roll the printed wallpaper into a roll for storage purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media web printer comprising: a pagewidth printhead; a cabinet for receiving replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of media web; a feed system defining a media path through the cabinet, the feed system having pilot guides for guiding the media web from the cartridges past the pagewidth printhead; a heated platen positioned in the media path downstream of the pilot guides, the heated platen for heating the media web prior to printing; and a cutter module for cutting the media web, the cutter module including a frame having end plates, a slitter gang located between the end plates, and a pair of entry rollers and a pair of exit rollers serving as a transport mechanism for the media web through the module. 2. The media web printer of claim 1, further comprising one or more reservoirs for storing liquid ink, the one or more providers located above the printhead, wherein the printhead is supplied with liquid ink from the reservoirs and said reservoirs include a harness with a number of ink supply tubes for carrying different ink colors from the reservoirs to the printhead. 3. The media web printer of claim 1, further comprising a dryer module arranged in the media path downstream of the printhead and configured to operatively dry the media web. 4. The media web printer of claim 3, further comprising a drying compartment in which the dryer is provided, the drying compartment defining a catenary path along which the media web traverses. 5. The media web printer of claim 3, wherein the dryer includes one or more centrifugal fans to provide a supply of air through a chamber across one or more heating elements that are controlled by a thermal sensor. 