One aspect relates to inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at a X-ray fluorescence event within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. The aspect can relate to detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is configured to be performed at least partially with at least one device which is configured to be transported portably by a person.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at a X-ray fluorescence event within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; and detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with at least one device which is configured to be transported portably by a person. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially based on the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting remotely from a relatively high-powered input source. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to operate from a mobile power source. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to operate from a mobile power source without a fixed position of the mobile power source. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to be transported with a vehicle. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to be transported or operated from a cart. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to be transported or operated from a portable computer-based device. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to be transported or operated from a harness carried by the person. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with the at least one device configured to be transported or operated in a typical commuter mode for a particular locale of operation. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon includes detecting an energy of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon includes detecting a composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual in which the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is induced. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the person is the individual. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the person is an untrained assistant. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting responsive to a transportable device. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting responsive to a commuter-type transportable device configured to be transported or operated in a typical commuter mode for a particular locale of operation. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting responsive to a connecting to standard voltage/current electrical supplies for a particular locale of operation. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon and the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon include inducing and detecting with energy from an energy accumulator. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon detects at least some matter density and at least some matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is performed on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some X-rays. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some gamma rays. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some electrons. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some ions. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon occurs at least partially to a prescribed substantial X-ray fluorescence depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon occurs at least partially to an X-ray fluorescence range of X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes a human, an animal, an organism, and/or a plant. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter includes at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth, or a portion thereof, or an at least partially internal insert. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy has an energy of greater than or equal to at least one from an energy group, the energy group includes at least one of 1 KeV, 10 KeV, or 100 KeV. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon comprises: anatomically inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon comprises: functionally inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 32. An apparatus, comprising: a photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at a X-ray fluorescence event within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; and an X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to detect the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at least partially in response to the photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at the X-ray fluorescence event, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion and the photon and/or particle emitter portion are configured to be transported portably by a person. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, further comprising an X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing portion configured to X-ray fluorescence visualize, image, or provide information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially based on the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to detect the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 34. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to detect the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at least partially in response to the photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at the X-ray fluorescence event is configured to detect an energy of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 35. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to operate remotely from a relatively high-powered input source. 36. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to operate from a mobile power source. 37. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to operate from a mobile power source without a fixed position of the mobile power source. 38. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to operate from a vehicle. 39. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to be transported or operated in a typical commuter mode for a particular locale of operation. 40. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the person is an untrained assistant. 41. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the person is the individual. 42. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to induce at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at the X-ray fluorescence event in response to a transportable device. 43. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to induce at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at the X-ray fluorescence event in response to a commuter-type transportable device. 44. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to operationally connect to standard voltage/current electrical supplies for a local electrical-supply. 45. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to operationally connect to an energy accumulator. 46. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to determine at least some element matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 47. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion are configured to determine at least some matter density of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 48. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the at least some input energy has an energy of greater than or equal to at least one from an energy group, the energy group includes at least one of 1 KeV, 10 KeV, or 100 KeV. 49. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an X-ray based emissive structure. 50. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 51. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 52. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an electron emissive structure. 53. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an ion emissive structure. 54. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein an at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 55. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein an at least an operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 56. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable timing. 57. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable energy. 58. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy at a controllable location. 59. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable direction. 60. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one energy level detector. 61. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one photodetector. 62. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one X-ray spectrometer. 