Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of forkhead box O1A. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding forkhead box O1A. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of forkhead box O1A expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of forkhead box O1A are provided, in particular, for methods of treating diabetes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of decreasing blood or plasma glucose in an animal comprising administering to the animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound 8 to 80 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding forkhead box O1A, wherein the compound is 100% complementary to a nucleic acid molecule encoding forkhead box O1A, so that expression of forkhead box O1A is decreased. 2. A method of improving glucose tolerance in an animal comprising administering to the animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound 8 to 80 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding forkhead box O1A, wherein the compound is 100% complementary to a nucleic acid molecule encoding forkhead box O1A, so that expression of forkhead box O1A is decreased. 3. A method of normalizing insulin levels in an animal comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound 8 to 80 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding forkhead box O1A, wherein the compound is 100% complementary to a nucleic acid molecule encoding forkhead box O1A, so that expression of forkhead O1A is decreased. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 9. The method of claim 4, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 11. The method of claim 4, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound comprises a modified oligonucleotide comprising: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each of said nucleosides of each of said wing segments comprises a modified sugar. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound comprises a modified oligonucleotide comprising: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each of said nucleosides of each of said wing segments comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 14. The method of claim 2, wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 22. The method of claim 2, wherein the compound comprises a modified oligonucleotide comprising: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each of said nucleosides of each of said wing segments comprises a modified sugar. 23. The method of claim 2, wherein the compound comprises a modified oligonucleotide comprising: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each of said nucleosides of each of said wing segments comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 24. The method of claim 3, wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 29. The method of claim 24, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 31. The method of claim 24, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 32. The method of claim 3, wherein the compound comprises a modified oligonucleotide comprising: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each of said nucleosides of each of said wing segments comprises a modified sugar. 33. The method of claim 3, wherein the compound comprises a modified oligonucleotide comprising: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each of said nucleosides of each of said wing segments comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 