The invention provides extraction columns for the purification of an analyte (e.g., a biological macromolecule, such as a peptide, protein or nucleic acid) from a sample solution, as well as methods for making and using such columns. The columns typically include a bed of extraction media positioned in the column between two frits. In some embodiments, the extraction columns employ modified pipette tips as column bodies. In some embodiments, the invention provides columns characterized by low backpressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pipet tip column for extracting an analyte comprising: i) a column body having an open upper end, an open lower end, and an open channel between the upper and lower ends of the column body; ii) a bottom frit extending across the open channel, wherein the bottom frit is located at the open lower end of the column body; iii) a top frit extending across the open channel between the bottom frit and the open upper end of the column body, wherein the top frit or the bottom frit material is selected from a group consisting of polyamide, polycarbonate, cellulose, nitrocellulose, cellulose acetate, polyvinylidine difluoride, polytetrafluoroethylene, polypropylene, polysulfone, metal, glass, nylon and polyester, wherein the top frit, bottom frit, and column body define an extraction media chamber; and iv) a packed bed of hydrated gel resin positioned inside the extraction media chamber, wherein the gel resin is agarose or sepharose, wherein the bed is not tightly packed, and wherein said pipet tip column is characterized by a back pressure in the range of about 0.01 psi to 1.5 psi when an aqueous solution is passed through the column at a flow rate of 1 ml/min. 2. The pipet tip column of claim 1, wherein the column is characterized by a back pressure in the range of about 0.01 psi to 1 psi. 3. The pipet tip column of claim 2, wherein the column is characterized by a back pressure in the range of about 0.01 psi to 0.5 psi. 4. The pipet tip column of claim 1 wherein the gel resin is further comprised of an affinity binding group having an affinity for a functional, active, native or non-denatured protein analyte, and wherein the affinity binding group is selected from the group consisting of Protein A, Protein G, Protein L and an immobilized metal. 5. The pipet tip column of claim 1, wherein the bed of gel resin has a volume of between about 0.1 .mu.L and 1000 .mu.L. 6. The pipet tip column of claim 5, wherein the bed of gel resin has a volume of between about 0.1 .mu.L and 500 .mu.L. 7. The pipet tip column of claim 6, wherein the bed of gel resin has a volume of between about 0.1 .mu.L and 100 .mu.L. 8. The pipet tip column of claim 1, wherein the upper end of the column body is attached to a pump for aspirating fluid through the lower end of the column body, wherein said pump is a pipettor, a syringe or a syringe pump. 9. The pipet tip column of claim 8, wherein the column is characterized by a back pressure is in the range of about 0.01 psi to 1 psi. 10. A multiplexed extraction system comprised of: a plurality of pipet tip columns of claim 1; and at least one pump in operative engagement with the pipet tip columns. 11. The multiplexed extraction system of claim 10 wherein each pipet tip column is addressable and the multiplexed extraction system is further comprised of: a controller for controlling the pumps; a computer operating said controller, wherein the computer can be programmed to control the movement of the pumps through the controller. 12. A method for extracting an analyte from a sample solution comprising the steps of: i) introducing a sample solution containing an analyte into the pipet tip column of claim 1, whereby at least some fraction of the analyte is adsorbed to the gel resin positioned inside the pipet tip column; ii) substantially evacuating the sample solution from the pipet tip column; iii) introducing a desorption solvent into the pipet tip column, whereby at least some fraction of the bound analyte is desorbed from the gel resin pipet tip column into the desorption solvent; and iv) eluting the desorption solvent containing the desorbed analyte from the pipet tip column. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein an optional wash step is performed between steps (ii) and (iii). 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the upper end of the pipet tip column body is attached to a pump and wherein the sample solution, the wash solution or the desorption solution is aspirated and discharged through the lower end of the pipet tip column. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the sample solution is passed back and forth through the pipet tip column two or more times. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the desorption solvent is aspirated and discharged from the pipet tip column more than once. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the wash solution is pumped back and forth through the bed of gel resin. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the method is performed on a plurality of pipet tip columns operated in parallel. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the pump is a multichannel pipettor or a liquid handing system. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the sample solution, the wash solution or the desorption solution is pumped back and forth through the bed of hydrated gel resin. 