The invention describes devices for controlling fluid flow, such as valves. The devices may include one or more electroactive polymer transducers with an electroactive polymer that deflects in response to an application of an electric field. The electroactive polymer may be in contact with a fluid where the deflection of the electroactive polymer may be used to change a characteristic of the fluid. Some of the characteristic of the fluid that may be changed include but are not limited to 1) a flow rate, 2) a flow direction, 3) a flow vorticity, 4) a flow momentum, 5) a flow mixing rate, 6) a flow turbulence rate, 7) a flow energy, 8) a flow thermodynamic property. The electroactive polymer may be a portion of a surface of a structure that is immersed in an external fluid flow, such as the surface of an airplane wing or the electroactive polymer may be a portion of a surface of a structure used in an internal flow, such as a bounding surface of a fluid conduit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid flow device, comprising: an electroactive polymer transducer comprising at least one compliant electrode and an electroactive polymer in electrical communication with the at least one compliant electrode and having an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa, wherein a portion of the electroactive polymer is arranged to deflect from a first position to a second position in response to a change in electric field applied to the at least one compliant electrode; and at least one device surface in contact with a fluid and operatively coupled to the electroactive polymer transducer, wherein the deflection of the portion of the electroactive polymer causes a change in a characteristic of the fluid that is transmitted to the fluid via the one surface. 2. The fluid flow device of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of the fluid is selected from the group consisting of: 1) a flow rate, 2) a flow direction, 3) a flow vorticity, 4) a flow momentum, 5) mixing, 6) flow turbulence, 7) fluid energy, 8) a fluid thermodynamic property, 9) a fluid rheological property. 3. The fluid flow device of claim 1, wherein the at least one device surface is operatively coupled to the electroactive polymer transducer via a mechanical linkage. 4. The fluid flow device of claim 1, wherein the fluid flow device is a valve. 5. The fluid flow device of claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer transducer comprises a rolled transducer. 6. The fluid flow device of claim 5, wherein the rolled transducer is adapted to deflect axially to perform as a linear actuator. 7. The fluid flow device of claim 6, wherein said axial deflection results in a mechanical force that is adapted to open or close an associated valve. 8. The fluid flow device of claim 5, wherein the rolled transducer includes a plurality of layers. 