An explosion containment vessel includes an inner frame structure for surrounding a potential explosive device, and an outer expandable containment vessel, which expands with the explosion, thereby mitigating potential damage that a bomb blast could do. In addition, a bomb capturing device is provided on the bottom end of the inner frame for lifting the explosive device into the inner frame and for closing the bottom end of the inner frame.
Claims We claim: 1. An explosion containment device for enclosing an explosive device comprising: a frame having a closed end, and an initially open lower end for placing the frame over the explosive device; an outer containment vessel having an expandable volume, the outer containment vessel mounted on and surrounding the frame, and having an opening for placing over the explosive device to enclose the explosive device within the frame and the outer containment vessel; and an actuatable door for closing the open end of the frame and for engaging the explosive device to capture the explosive device within the frame and the outer containment vessel, the actuatable door including first and second reciprocating jaws in the open end of the frame; wherein the first and second jaws comprise leading edges that make contact when the first and second jaws are in a closed position, and a plurality of teeth that extend outwardly and downwardly from the leading edges thereof, whereby actuation of the first and second jaws cause the teeth to engage the explosive device and lift the explosive device into the frame; and whereby detonation of the explosive device causes the outer containment vessel to expand, thereby containing the explosion and preventing failure thereof. 2. The explosion containment device according to claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a structurally solid inner containment vessel for directing the explosion upwardly. 3. The explosion containment device according to claim 2, wherein the top end of the frame is closed with a lid; and wherein the outer containment vessel is comprised of a multi-layer sheet of material with an edge thereof attached around the frame, whereby detonation of the explosive device raises the lid causing the outer containment vessel to expand. 4. The explosion containment device according to claim 3, wherein the multi-layer sheet of material comprises one or more layers selected from the group consisting of high strength and impact resistant layers, heat resistant fabric layers, and Glass fiber. 5. The explosion containment device according to claim 3, wherein the multi-layer sheet is folded around the outside of the frame. 6. The explosion containment device according to claim 5, wherein the multi-layer sheet is folded into a series of horizontal layers surrounding the frame. 7. The explosion containment device according to claim 1, wherein the actuatable door is actuatable remotely. 8. The explosion containment device according to claim 1, wherein each of the first and second jaws is spring loaded and capable of being held in an open position forming the opening in the lower end of the frame. 9. The explosion containment device according to claim 1, wherein the outer containment vessel is comprised of a multi-layer sheet of material with an edge thereof attached around the frame, whereby detonation of the explosive device causes the outer containment vessel to expand. 10. The explosion containment device according to claim 9, wherein the multi-layer sheet of material comprises one or more layers selected from the group consisting of high strength and impact resistant layers, heat resistant fabric layers, and Glass fiber. 11. The explosion containment device according to claim 9, wherein the multi-layer sheet is folded around the outside of the frame. 12. The explosion containment device according to claim 9, wherein the multi-layer sheet is folded into a series of horizontal layers surrounding the frame. 