The present invention provides a method and apparatus for accurately positioning a robotic pool-playing device. The system comprises a computer controlled robotic positioning device, such as a gantry robot, that can position a cue over the pool table and place a shot. A global camera is mounted on the ceiling looking down at the table, and the acquired images are transmitted to the computer for analysis to determine the identity and locations of the balls within the table coordinate reference frame. The computer also automatically determines which ball to strike. An aspect of the invention is the use of a local camera, mounted on or near the robotic end-effector in a fixed relationship with the cue, to improve the positioning error of the robotic device prior to placing a shot. By comparing the ball locations perceived from the vantage of the local camera with the known ball locations determined from the global camera image, the invention can calculate the acquired robotic positioning error, which can then be corrected for prior to placing the shot.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for playing pool, comprising; a) a robot having a robotic arm with an end effector, the robot mounted on a gantry for movement above a pool table, a pool cue attached to the end-effector, the pool cue having a longitudinal axis; b) a first image capturing means mounted above the pool table for acquiring an image of the pool table and positioned such that its image plane is substantially parallel to both a playing surface of the pool table and said longitudinal axis of said pool cue; c) a second image capturing means mounted on the robotic end-effector so that its image plane is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the pool cue for capturing an image of a pool table using a camera, the position of said camera being fixed with respect to the longitudinal axis of the pool cue; d) a computer processing means connected to the first image capturing means for analysis of the images transmitted thereto from the image capturing means, the computer processing means including means for determining a position and identity of each pool ball on the pool table within this image within a frame of reference of the image capturing means, said computer processing means including means for planning a shot of a cue ball by the pool cue by calculating a desired position of the cue with respect to the cue ball; and e) a robotic controller connected to said computer processing means for instructing the robot to place pool shots with the cue. 2. The apparatus for playing pool according to claim 1 including landmarks positioned at specific locations with respect to the pool table wherein the positions of the landmarks can therefore be identified within the frame of reference of the first image capturing means, whereby the computer processing means is further connected to the second image capturing means, and once the cue has been positioned, then the landmark locations can be identified within the frame of reference of the second image capturing means, and a positional error of the cue can then be estimated. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein locations of the landmarks have been predetermined with respect to the frame of reference of the first image capturing means. 