This invention relates to methods for detecting and sequencing target nucleic acid sequences, to mass modified nucleic acid probes and arrays of probes useful in these methods, and to kits and systems which contain these probes. Useful methods involve hybridizing the nucleic acids or nucleic acids which represent complementary or homologous sequences of the target to an array of nucleic acid probes. These probes comprise a single-stranded portion, an optional double-stranded portion and a variable sequence within the single-stranded portion. The molecular weights of the hybridized nucleic acids of the set can be determined by mass spectroscopy, and the sequence of the target determined from the molecular weights of the fragments. Nucleic acids whose sequences can be determined include DNA or RNA in biological samples such as patient biopsies and environmental samples. Probes may be fixed to a solid support such as a hybridization chip to facilitate automated molecular weight analysis and identification of the target sequence.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sequencing a target nucleic acid molecule, comprising: fragmenting the target nucleic acid molecule to produce a set of nucleic acid fragments each containing a sequence that corresponds to a sequence of the target nucleic acid; hybridizing the set to an array of nucleic acid probes to form a target array of nucleic acid molecules, wherein: each probe comprises a single-stranded portion comprising a variable region; and the array comprises a collection of the probes with sufficient sequence diversity in the variable regions to hybridize all of the target sequence with complete or nearly complete discrimination; releasing the nucleic acid fragments hybridized to the probes, thereby producing released fragments; generating mass signals of the released fragments by mass spectrometry; wherein the released fragments are not labeled; and determining the sequence of the target nucleic acid from the mass signals. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular weights are determined by a method selected from the group consisting of gel electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, chromatography, and nuclear magnetic resonance. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass spectrometry comprises a step selected from the group consisting of laser heating, droplet release, electrical release, photochemical release, fast atom bombardment, plasma desorption, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, electrospray, and resonance ionization, or a combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass spectrometry comprises a step selected from the group consisting of Fourier Transform, ion cyclotron resonance, time of flight analysis with reflection, time of flight analysis without reflection, and quadrupole analysis, or a combination thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass spectrometry comprises matrix-assisted desorption ionization and time of flight analysis. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass spectrometry comprises electrospray ionization and quadrupole analysis. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein two or more molecular weights are determined simultaneously. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of enzymatically extending the nucleic acid probes of the target array using the hybridized target nucleic acid as a template to form extended strands prior to the step of determining the molecular weights of the nucleic acids. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the extended strands comprise DNA, RNA, PNA or combinations thereof. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of extending is performed in the presence of chain elongating nucleotides and chain terminating nucleotides. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the array comprises nucleic acid probes having at least one mass-modifying functionality. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a heterocyclic base, a sugar moiety or a phosphate group. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is a chemical moiety that does not interfere with hydrogen bonding for base-pair formation. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a purine at position C2, N3, N7, or C8. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a deazapurine at position N7 or N9. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a pyrimidine at position C5 or C6. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is selected from the group consisting of F, Cl, Br, I, SiR.sub.3, Si(CH.sub.3).sub.3, Si(CH.sub.3).sub.2(C.sub.2H.sub.5), Si(CH.sub.3)(C.sub.2H.sub.5).sub.2, Si(C.sub.2H.sub.5).sub.3, (CH.sub.2).sub.nCH.sub.3, (CH.sub.2).sub.nNR.sub.2, CH.sub.2CONR.sub.2, (CH.sub.2).sub.nOH, CH.sub.2F, CHF.sub.2, and CF.sub.3; wherein n is an integer; and wherein R is selected from the group consisting of --H, deuterium and alkyls, alkoxys and aryls of 1-6 carbon atoms, polyoxymethylene, monoalkylated polyoxymethylene, polyethylene imine, polyamide, polyester, alkylated silyl, heterooligo/polyaminoacid and polyethylene glycol. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is --N.sub.3 or --XR, wherein X is selected from the group consisting of --O--, --NH--, --NR--, --S--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.nCOO--, --NHCO(CH.sub.2).sub.nCOO--, --OSO.sub.2O--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.n--, --NHC(O)--, and --C(O)NH--, and n is an integer from 1 to 20; and wherein R is selected from the group consisting of --H, deuterium and alkyls, alkoxys and aryls of 1-6 carbon atoms, polyoxymethylene, monoalkylated polyoxymethylene, polyethylene imine, polyamide, polyester, alkylated silyl, heterooligo/polyaminoacid and polyethylene glycol. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein X is --NHC(S)--. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein X is --NHC(S)NH--. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein X is --NC.sub.4O.sub.2H.sub.3S--. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein X is --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.nS--. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein X is --OCO(CH.sub.2)S--. 24. The method of claim 18, wherein X is --OP(O-alkyl)-. 25. The method of claim 18, wherein X is --OPO(O-alkyl)-. 26. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is a thiol moiety. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the thiol moiety is generated by using Beucage reagent. 28. The method of claim 11, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is an alkyl moiety. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the alkyl moiety is generated by using iodoacetamide. 30. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of removing alkali cations. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the alkali cations are removed by ion exchange. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the ion exchange comprises contacting the nucleic acid with a solution selected from the group consisting of ammonium acetate, ammonium carbonate, diammonium hydrogen citrate, and ammonium tartrate, or combinations thereof. 33. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of ligating the hybridized target nucleic acids to the probes. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid is provided from a biological sample. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the biological sample is obtained from a patient. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid is provided from a recombinant source. 37. The method of claim 1, where the target nucleic acid is between about 10 to about 1,000 nucleotides in length. 38. The method of claim 1, where the nucleic acid fragments are between about 10 to about 1,000 nucleotides in length. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein each sequence of the nucleic acid fragments is homologous with at least a portion of the sequence of the target nucleic acid. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein each sequence of the set of nucleic acid fragments is complementary with at least a portion of the sequence of the target nucleic acid. 41. The method of claim 1, comprising the step of dephosphorylating the nucleic acid fragments by treatment with a phosphatase prior to hybridization. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein the fragments are provided by enzymatic digestion of the target nucleic acid. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the enzymatic digestion is carried out by a nuclease. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid fragments are provided by physically cleaving the target nucleic acid. 45. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid fragments are provided by enzymatic polymerization, wherein the target nucleic acid is a template. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein the enzymatic polymerization is a nucleic acid amplification process selected from the group consisting of strand displacement amplification, ligase chain reaction, Q.beta. replicase amplification, 3SR amplification, and polymerase chain reaction. 47. The method of claim 45, wherein the enzymatic polymerization is carried out in the presence of chain elongating nucleotides and chain terminating nucleotides. 48. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid fragments are provided by synthesizing a complementary copy of the target sequence. 49. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid fragments comprise DNA, RNA, PNA or combinations thereof. 50. The method of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid comprises DNA, RNA, PNA or modifications of combinations thereof. 51. The method of claim 1, wherein the fragments of nucleic acids comprise greater than about 10.sup.4 different members and each member is between about 10 to about 1,000 nucleotides in length. 52. The method of claim 1, wherein the probes are single-stranded. 53. The method of claim 1, wherein the probes are about 10 to about 1,000 nucleotides in length. 54. The method of claim 1, wherein the probes are about 15 to about 200 nucleotides in length. 55. The method of claim 1, wherein the probes are about 10 to 50 nucleotides in length. 56. The method of claim 1, wherein the variable region is about 4 to about 20 nucleotides in length. 57. The method of claim 1, wherein the array of nucleic acid probes is attached to a solid support. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of plates, beads, microbeads, whiskers, combs, hybridization chips, membranes, single crystals, ceramics, and self-assembling monolayers. 59. The method of claim 57, wherein the probes are conjugated with biotin or a biotin derivative and wherein the solid support is conjugated with avidin, streptavidin or a derivative thereof. 60. The method of claim 57, wherein each probe is attached to the solid support by a bond selected from the group consisting of a covalent bond, an electrostatic bond, a hydrogen bond, a cleavable bond, a photocleavable bond, a disulfide bond, a peptide bond, a diester bond, a selectively releasable bond and combinations thereof. 61. The method of claim 60, wherein the cleavable bond is cleaved by a cleaving agent selected from the group consisting of heat, an enzyme, a chemical agent, and electromagnetic radiation, or a combination thereof. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein the chemical agent is selected from the group consisting of reducing agents, oxidizing agents, and hydrolyzing agents, or a combination thereof. 63. The method of claim 61, wherein the electromagnetic radiation is selected from the group consisting of visible radiation, ultraviolet radiation, and infrared radiation. 64. The method of claim 60, wherein the bond is a selectively releasable bond and comprises 4,4'-dimethoxytrityl or a derivative thereof. 65. The method of claim 64, wherein the derivative is selected from the group consisting of 3 or 4 [bis-(4-methoxyphenyl)]-methyl-benzoic acid, N-succinimidyl-3 or 4[bis-(4-methoxyphenyl)]-methyl-benzoic acid, N-succinimidyl-3 or 4 [bis-(4-methoxyphenyl)]-hydroxymethyl-benzoic acid, N-succinimidyl-3 or 4 [bis-(4-methoxyphenyl)]-chloromethyl-benzoic acid and salts thereof. 66. The method of claim 57, comprising a spacer between each probe and the solid support. 67. The method of claim 66, wherein the spacer is selected from the group consisting of oligopeptides, oligonucleotides, oligopolyamides, oligoethyleneglycerol, oligoacrylamides, and alkyl chains of between about 6 to about 20 carbon atoms, or combinations thereof. 68. The method of claim 57, wherein the solid support comprises a matrix chemical that facilitates volatilization of nucleic acids for molecular weight determination. 69. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid probes comprise DNA, RNA, PNA, or combinations thereof. 70. The method of claim 1, wherein the probes comprise a double-stranded portion and a single-stranded portion. 71. The method of claim 1, wherein: each probe comprises a double-stranded portion and a single-stranded portion; and either or both the single-stranded region and the double-stranded region includes a constant sequence as a point of reference for subsequent analysis. 72. The method of claim 1, wherein sequencing redundancy is reduced by saturating the array with phosphatased double-stranded targets. 73. The method of claim 1, wherein sequencing redundancy is reduced by monitoring the array by confocal microscopy after elongation reactions. 74. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a comparison of the mass signals to known reference mass signals. 75. The method of claim 1, wherein the released fragments are mass modified. 76. The method of claim 1, wherein the released fragments are not mass modified. 77. The method of claim 1, wherein the released fragments consist of nucleotides. 