A system for manufacturing homes is provided. An embodiment includes a final assembly facility located proximal to a subdivision where a plurality of the custom homes is to be situated. The final assembly facility is for receiving the planar sections from the sub-assembly plant and for constructing the homes from planar portions according to the production schedule.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A final assembly facility for constructing homes from substantially planar floor and wall sections comprising: a crane section having at least one roof assembly area; an final-assembly section connected to said crane section; a final assembly line having at least one station in said crane section adjacent to said roof assembly area; a crane within said crane section for lifting a roof assembled in said roof assembly area onto a house assembled from said planar floor and wall sections; said final assembly line further having a plurality of additional stations within said final-assembly section that are in-line with said at least one station, wherein each of said additional stations are provided for further finishing said house. 2. The final assembly facility of claim 1 wherein said additional stations comprise performing one or more of installing HVAC risers; installing gas fireplaces; completing plumbing; completing electrical; insulating walls; testing plumbing; testing electrical; drywall taping; installing railings; painting; installing kitchen fixtures; installing bathroom fixtures; installing mouldings; installing base boards; installing carpets. 3. The final assembly facility of claim 1 wherein said crane section is wider than said final assembly line. 4. The final assembly facility of claim 3 wherein said crane section includes two roof assembly areas. 5. The final assembly facility of claim 4 wherein said roof assembly areas are on either side of said at least one station. 6. The final assembly facility of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of loading bays that are proximal to various ones of said stations. 7. The final assembly facility of claim 1 further comprising a loading zone situated below grade to said final assembly facility, such that an upper surface of a transporter within said loading zone is coplanar with said final assembly facility. 8. The final assembly facility of claim 1 further comprising a rail system for moving houses from station to station. 9. The final assembly facility of claim 8 wherein said rail system comprises a pair of plates that run the length of said final assembly facility and a plurality of shoes that slide along said plates; said system further comprising an intermediate support between said shoes and a house being assembled in said final assembly facility. 