An automated storage system for storing large quantities of samples in trays includes a storage compartment, a tray shuttle compartment abutting the storage compartment on one side and a plurality of independent modules on the other side. The modules perform processing of samples that are retrieved from the storage compartment by a tray shuttle, including extraction of selected samples from retrieved source trays and transfer of the selected samples into a separate, destination tray that can be further processed or removed from the system for use. The independent operation of the modules permits handling and processing to be performed simultaneously by different modules while the tray shuttle accesses additional samples within the storage compartment. In one embodiment, a vertical carousel is used to vertically align a desired tray with the tray shuttle, while the tray shuttle operates within a horizontal plane.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical reading device for scanning bar codes on an object within a scanning area, the device comprising: a translation mechanism for moving the object along a translation axis within the scanning area; a bar code reader disposed at a fixed position within the scanning area, the reader projecting a reading beam toward the translation axis; and a plurality of mirrors attached to the translation mechanism to move with the object along the translation axis, each mirror being disposed at a different angle and a different location relative to the object to reflect the reading beam at one of a plurality of different positions along the translation axis so that when each mirror intersects the reading beam, the mirror reflects the reading beam to an area of the object that is not fully directly visible to the reader. 2. The optical reading device of claim 1, wherein the translation mechanism includes a pick head for grasping a top of the object so that the surfaces of the object bearing the bar code extend downward from the pick head. 3. The optical reading device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises flat mirrors, each flat mirror being disposed at a different angle relative to the translation axis. 4. The optical reading device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises two flat mirrors so that the reader has three different views of the object. 5. The optical reading device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises three flat mirrors so that the reader has four different partially overlapping views of the object. 6. An optical reading device for scanning an optical code on an object, the device comprising: an optical code reader having a reading beam projected toward a scanning area, wherein the reader is disposed at a fixed position relative to the scanning area; a translation mechanism for moving the object through the scanning area along a translation axis to intersect the reading beam, wherein at least a portion of the object is directly visible to the reader; and a plurality of mirrors moving with the object, each mirror being fixed at a different angle and a different location relative to the object to reflect the reading beam at one of a plurality of different positions along the translation axis so that when each mirror intersects the reading beam, the mirror reflects the reading beam to an area of the object that is not fully directly visible to the reader; wherein a combination of the plurality of mirrors and direct reading causes all sides of the object to be visible to the reader as the object moves along the translation axis. 7. The optical reading device of claim 6, wherein the translation mechanism includes a pick head for grasping a top of the object so that the surfaces of the object bearing the bar code extend downward from the pick head. 8. The optical reading device of claim 6, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises flat mirrors, each flat mirror being disposed at a different angle relative to the translation axis. 9. The optical reading device of claim 8, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises two flat mirrors, wherein the reader has three different views of the object. 10. The optical reading device of claim 8, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises three flat mirrors, wherein the reader has four different partially overlapping views of the object. 11. An optical reading device for scanning an optical code on an object, the device comprising: an optical code reader having a reading beam projected toward a scanning area, wherein the reader is disposed at a fixed position relative to the scanning area; a translation mechanism for moving each of the object and a plurality of mirrors through the scanning area along a translation axis to intersect the reading beam; and wherein each of the plurality of mirrors is fixed at a different angle and a different location relative to the object to reflect the reading beam at one of a plurality of different positions along the translation axis so that when each mirror intersects the reading beam, the mirror reflects the reading beam to an area of the object that is not fully directly visible to the reader; wherein a combination of the plurality of mirrors and direct reading causes all sides of the object to be visible to the reader as the object moves along the translation axis. 12. The optical reading device of claim 11, wherein the translation mechanism includes a pick head for grasping a top of the object so that the surfaces of the object bearing the bar code extend downward from the pick head. 13. The optical reading device of claim 11, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises flat mirrors, each flat mirror being disposed at a different angle relative to the translation axis. 14. The optical reading device of claim 13, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises two flat mirrors, wherein the reader has three different views of the object. 15. The optical reading device of claim 13, wherein the plurality of mirrors comprises three flat mirrors, wherein the reader has four different partially overlapping views of the object. 