A method of making a measurement of binding affinity of a sample comprises the steps of: introducing the sample into a well having a bottom formed as a photonic crystal biosensor, wherein a portion of the sample becomes bound to the biosensor; making a measurement of the change in the shift in peak wavelength value as a function of time (k.sub.on) from the well as the sample is introduced into the well; simultaneously dispensing the sample to the well and aspirating the sample from the well and measuring the change in the shift in peak wavelength value as a function of time (k.sub.off) during the simultaneous dispensing and aspirating, and calculating an equilibrium association constant or an equilibrium dissociation constant for the sample from the values of k.sub.on and k.sub.off.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of making a measurement of binding affinity of a sample, comprising the steps of: introducing the sample into a well having a bottom formed as a photonic crystal biosensor, wherein a portion of the sample becomes bound to the biosensor; making a measurement of the change in the shift in peak wavelength value as a function of time (k.sub.on) from the well as the sample is introduced into the well; simultaneously dispensing the sample to the well and aspirating the sample from the well and measuring the change in the shift in peak wavelength value as a function of time (k.sub.off) during the simultaneous dispensing and aspirating, calculating an equilibrium association constant or an equilibrium dissociation constant for the sample from the values of k.sub.on and k.sub.off. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of simultaneously aspirating and dispensing is performed by a device comprising: a) a body having a portion thereof adapted for engagement with a testing device incorporating the well; b) dispense tubing coupled to the body for receiving a sample from a source; c) aspirate tubing coupled to the body connected to a source of vacuum; d) a dispense manifold connected to the dispense tubing having at least one dispensing port; e) an aspirate manifold connected to the aspirate tubing having at least one aspirating port; and f) a control mechanism for controlling movement of the sample from the dispense tubing to the dispense port and for simultaneously controlling application of vacuum in the aspirate tubing to the aspirating port. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein testing device comprises a multi-well testing device arranged in one or more rows of a plurality of wells, and wherein the dispense and aspirate manifolds include a dispensing and aspirating port for each well in the row of wells in the multi-well test device. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of making a measurement with a sensor during the aspirating and dispensing step. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of a) a temperature sensor, b) a pH sensor, and c) an ionic strength sensor. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of controlling the temperature of the sample delivered to the testing device. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the well is incorporated into a testing device, and wherein the step of simultaneously dispensing and aspirating the sample comprises the steps of: positioning an aspirating and dispensing device having an aspirating port and a dispensing port proximate to the testing device such that the aspirating port and the dispensing port in the device are placed into the well; and activating a control mechanism to thereby cause a sample to enter the well via the dispensing port and simultaneously aspirating the sample from the well. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the testing device comprises a multi-well device having a plurality of wells arranged in rows and columns, and wherein during the positioning step an aspirating port and a dispensing port of the aspirating and dispensing device are placed into all the wells in a row or column of wells of the multi-well device. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of making an optical measurement of during the dispensing and aspirating step. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a buffer. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprises the step of making a measurement of a shift in peak wavelength value of the biosensor during the step of dispensing and aspirating the buffer. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a fluid sample containing at least one of the following: proteins, DNA, cells, virus particles, bacteria, low molecular weight molecules (substances of molecular weight<1000 Daltons (Da)), molecules having a molecular weight of between 1000 Da to 10,000 Da, amino acids, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acid polymers, viral particles, viral components, and cellular components comprising vesicles, mitochondria, membranes, structural features, periplasm or an extract thereof. 