The invention provides an apparatus and methods for depositing materials on a substrate, and for performing other selected functions, such as material destruction and removal, temperature control, imaging, detection, therapy and positional and locational control. In various embodiments, the apparatus and methods are suitable for use in a tabletop setting, in vitro or in vivo.
Claims We claim: 1. A tool for performing biological, tissue engineering and/or medical procedures involving at least the placement of at least one constituent material at a target area within a body from a supply of the constituent material, comprising: a. at least one material dispenser, which dispenses constituent materials forming biocompatible scaffold material, said material dispenser being configured to include an opening, and being controlled by a computer-controlled location control device, such that said constituent material is deposited in a three-dimensional pattern or shape which three-dimensional pattern or shape defines a cell growth template within said body, and b. at least one imaging device, wherein the tool is sized and shaped to at least partially enter the body through an opening therein; and wherein each of the at least one material dispenser, comprises: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having the constituent material therein and being sized and shaped so that the constituent material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of the constituent material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which the constituent material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which the constituent material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein the body is a human body. 3. The tool of claim 1, wherein the at least one imaging device comprises an in vivo endoscopic camera. 4. The tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one material remover. 5. The tool of claim 4, wherein the tool comprises a tip end and a spaced back end, and wherein the at least one material remover comprises: a. at least one vacuum generator, and b. at least one elongate vacuum channel having a first end adjacent said tip end of the tool, and a spaced second end operatively coupled to the vacuum generator, said vacuum channel being at least partially disposed within the tool. 6. The tool of claim 4, wherein the tool comprises a tip end and a spaced back end, and wherein the at least one material remover comprises: a. a reservoir of a flushing fluid, b. at least one elongate fluid channel having a first end adjacent said tip end of the tool, and a spaced second end operatively coupled to the reservoir, said fluid channel being at least partially disposed within the tool, and c. a pump operatively connected to the reservoir, for selectively pumping the flushing fluid from the reservoir through the at least one fluid channel. 7. The tool of claim 6, wherein the flushing fluid is selected from the group of fluids consisting of water and saline solutions. 8. The tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one temperature control device for controlling temperature characteristics of the at least one constituent material. 9. The tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one detector for evaluating tissue within the body. 10. The tool of claim 1, wherein the tool comprises a tip end and a spaced back end, and wherein the at least one material dispenser comprises a distal end adjacent the tip end of the tool, the tool further comprising means for extending the distal end of the at least one material dispenser relative to the tip end of the tool. 11. The tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one tool stabilizer for stabilizing the tool with respect to the target area. 12. The tool of claim 1, wherein said material dispenser is adapted to dispense, together with said biocompatible scaffold material, at least one of cells, nutrients, growth factors, ECM proteins, therapeutics and mixtures thereof to further define said cell growth template. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two constituent materials are simultaneously deposited as a layer on the substrate, wherein each constituent material flows through a separate feed channel therefore, and wherein the at least two constituent materials simultaneously flow through a common mixing nozzle prior to being simultaneously deposited as a layer on the substrate. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two constituent materials are simultaneously deposited as a layer on the substrate, wherein each constituent material to be deposited flows through a separate material dispenser. 15. A tool for performing biological, tissue engineering and/or medical procedures involving placement of at least one constituent material at a target area within a body, the tool comprising: a material dispenser configured to dispense a fluid comprising at least one constituent material for forming a biocompatible scaffold, the material dispenser comprising: i. a tip orifice defining an opening through which the constituent material exits the dispenser, ii. at least one elongate feed channel having an inlet and a spaced outlet adjacent the tip orifice, the at least one feed channel having the constituent material therein and being sized and shaped so that the constituent material therein may flow through the at least one channel from the inlet to the outlet, and iii. a valve for controlling the flow of the constituent material through the outlet of the at least one feed channel, the valve being moveable between an open position, in which the constituent material is permitted to flow through the outlet, and a closed position, in which the constituent material is not permitted to flow through the outlet, and iv. an actuator operatively coupled to the valve for selectively moving the valve between the open position and the closed position; at least one imaging device configured to acquire imaging of the body; wherein the tool is sized and shaped to at least partially enter the body through an opening therein. 