A substrate inspection system of a type that receives substrates disposed within a cassette and inspects a planar surface of the substrates with a read head, where the substrates are inspected while they are disposed within the cassette, and the read head is of a size to fit between adjacent substrates within the cassette. In this manner, the substrates do not need to be removed from the cassette, and no robotic arm is required to do so.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate inspection system comprising: a cassette elevator for receiving a cassette of substrates, where multiple substrates are removably disposed within the cassette in a planar-spaced orientation, the cassette elevator for indexing a position of the cassette and selectively disposing a substrate at a given elevation, and an optical read head for insertion between adjacent substrates at the given elevation, such that the substrate is inspected at the given elevation while the substrates are disposed within the cassette, where the optical read head is of a size to fit between the adjacent substrates within the cassette. 2. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, wherein relative movement between the substrate and the read head produces scan lines that are assembled into an inspection image of the substrate. 3. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, wherein movement of only the substrate relative to the read head produces scan lines that are assembled into an inspection image of the substrate. 4. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, wherein movement of only the read head relative to the substrate produces scan lines that are assembled into an inspection image of the substrate. 5. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, wherein movement of both the substrate and the read head produces scan lines that are assembled into an inspection image of the substrate. 6. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, further comprising an air bearing disposed on the read head, where the air bearing rides along the surface of the substrate and sets a working distance between the substrate and the read head. 7. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, further comprising multiple read heads, where the substrate inspection system is operable to simultaneously inspect more than one substrate while the substrates are disposed within the cassette. 8. The substrate inspection system of claim 1, further comprising multiple sensors within the read head, where the multiple sensors simultaneously sense multiple channels of information from the substrate. 