A system and method for CT guided instrument targeting including a radiolucent instrument driver; a robot and a control box. The robot includes a robotic module that positions the radiolucent driver about two directions coincident a predetermined point. The control device is connected to the robot and the radiolucent instrument driver. The control driver sends a robot control signal to the robot that causes the robotic module to place the radiolucent instrument driver in a desired orientation with respect to the predetermined point. After the radiolucent instrument driver is in the desired orientation, the control device sends a driver control signal to the radiolucent instrument driver that causes the radiolucent driver to insert a medical instrument or device through the predetermined point to a location proximate a target point in a patient.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic system for computed tomography guided operations involving a patient, the system comprising: a radiolucent instrument driver positionable about a predetermined point located on the patient, wherein the radiolucent instrument driver is free of being mounted on the patient; a robot attached to a support bridge which spans an upper surface of a CT table onto which the patient is positioned in a direction which is orthogonal relative to a longitudinal axis of the CT table, the robot comprising: a positioning stage mounted on the support bridge that translates the radiolucent instrument driver in an x-plane, a y-plane, and a z-plane, and a robotic module that positions the radiolucent instrument driver about two directions to angularly orient the radiolucent instrument driver coincident the predetermined point; a control device connected to the robot and the radiolucent instrument driver comprising: means for generating a first signal, a robot control signal, and a driver control signal, wherein the control device is configured to perform a medical device manipulation sequence that sends the first signal to the positioning stage to translate the radiolucent instrument driver proximate the predetermined point in the x, y, and z-planes, send the robot control signal to the robot that causes the robotic module to place the radiolucent instrument driver in a desired angular orientation with respect to the predetermined point, and, after the radiolucent instrument driver is in the desired orientation, the control device is further configured to send the driver control signal to the radiolucent instrument driver that causes the radiolucent instrument driver to insert a medical device attached thereto through the predetermined point to a location proximate a target point in the patient, and wherein the control device is further configured to maintain a relative positioning of the medical device with respect to the predetermined point on the patient; and means for decoupling the first signal, the robot control signal and the driver control signal so that each of the positioning stage, the robotic module and the radiolucent instrument driver are individually actuated sequentially in accordance with the medical device manipulation sequence. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a means for generating a first position signal and a second position signal, wherein the control device receives the first position signal to indicate the location of the predetermined point and the second position signal to indicate the location of the target position, wherein the control device, based on the first and second position signals, automatically calculates the desired orientation for the radiolucent instrument driver and a distance to the target point, and wherein the control device, based on the calculated orientation and distance, sends the robot control signal and the driver control signal. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising at least one image provided to the control device, wherein the first and second position signals are based on the at least one image. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the control device further comprises at least one joystick that generates at least one joystick control signal, and wherein the robot control signal and the driver control signals are based on the at least one joystick control signal. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a single frame of reference determined relative to the robot and a scanning direction of the patient, wherein the single frame of reference is maintained by the control device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical device is a needle. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical device is a RF ablation device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the control device is a computer and a display. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the support bridge is tiltable relative to the upper surface of the CT table. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the support bridge is attached to one of the CT table and a table adapter. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the table adapter is configured to span the upper surface of the CT table and comprises at least one strap that extends underneath the CT table and affixes the table adapter to the CT table. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the table adapter is configured to span the upper surface of the CT table and comprises at least one strap that extends underneath the CT table and affixes the table adapter to the CT table. 13. A robotic system for computed tomography (CT) guided operations involving a patient, the system comprising: a support bridge mounted to a CT table on which the patient is positioned, wherein the support bridge spans a top surface of the CT table in a direction which is orthogonal relative to a longitudinal axis of the CT table; an XYZ module carried by the support bridge; a passive arm connected to the XYZ module; a RCM robot module connected to the passive arm; a PAKY radiolucent needle driver carried and positioned by the robot module; a control device configured to control positioning of the XYZ module, the needle driver and the robot module relative to a predetermined point located on the patient, wherein the XYZ module, robot module and needle driver are free from being mounted on the patient, wherein the control device is configured to perform a medical device manipulation sequence that outputs a first signal to the XYZ module that controls the position of the XYZ module, output a second signal to the robot module that controls the angular orientation of the needle driver, and output a third signal to the needle driver that controls and maintains a relative positioning of a medical device attached to the needle driver with respect to the predetermined point on the patient during a CT guided operation; and means for decoupling control of the position of the XYZ module, control of the angular orientation of the needle driver, and control of the relative positioning of the medical device, wherein each control is individually actuated sequentially in accordance with the medical device manipulation sequence. 14. The system according to claim 13, further comprising a single frame of reference determined relative to the robot and a scanning direction of the patient during a CT guided operation, wherein the single frame of reference is maintained by the control device. 15. The system according to claim 13, wherein the CT table is one of stationary and fixed in position. 16. The system according to claim 13, wherein the support bridge is tiltable relative to the upper surface of the CT table. 17. The system according to claim 13, wherein the support bridge is attached to one of the CT table and a table adapter. 18. A system for computed tomography (CT) operations involving a patient, the system comprising: positions means for positioning a tip of a medical device at an insertion point, wherein the positions means is attached to a support bridge which spans a top surface of a CT table onto which the patient is positioned in a direction which is orthogonal relative to a longitudinal axis of the CT table; registration means for registering the medical device; orientating means for orientating the medical device to an angular orientation required to insert the medical device through the insertion point and position the tip of the medical device proximate a target; inserting means for inserting the medical device through the insertion point to a point where the tip of the medical device is proximate the target, wherein the positions means, the registration means, the orientating means and the inserting means are free from being mounted on the patient, and wherein the orienting means maintains a relative positioning of the medical device with respect to a predetermined point on the patient during a CT guided operation; and decoupling means for providing independent control of each of the positions means, the orientating means and the inserting means in accordance with a medical device manipulation sequence, wherein each motion of positioning the tip of the medical device, orienting the medical device, and inserting the medical device is individually actuated sequentially by a control device in accordance with the medical device manipulation sequence. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the orientating means comprises: identifying means for identifying a position of the tip of the medical device and for identifying a target; calculating means for calculating the orientation of the medical device required to insert the medical device through the insertion point and position the tip of the medical device proximate the target; and positioning means for positioning the medical device in the calculated orientation. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the medical device comprises a needle. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the needle is a biopsy needle. 22. The system of claim 18, wherein the medical device comprises an RF ablation target. 23. The system according to claim 18, wherein the support bridge is tiltable relative to the upper surface of the CT table. 24. The system according to claim 18, wherein the support bridge is attached to one of the CT table and a table adapter. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein the table adapter is configured to span the upper surface of the CT table and comprises at least one strap that extends underneath the CT table and affixes the table adapter to the CT table. 