A robotic system that includes a robot and a remote station. The remote station can generate control commands that are transmitted to the robot through a broadband network. The control commands can be interpreted by the robot to induce action such as robot movement or focusing a robot camera. The robot can generate reporting commands that are transmitted to the remote station through the broadband network. The reporting commands can provide positional feedback or system reports on the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system that communicates through a broadband network, comprising: a robot that has a camera and a monitor on a head, said robot generates at least one reporting command that is transmitted through the broadband network; and, a remote station that has a camera and a monitor, said remote station generates a SAVEHEADPOSITION command that is transmitted through the broadband network and causes said robot to save a position of said head, and receives said reporting command. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a RESTOREHEADPOSITION command that causes said robot to restore said head to the saved position. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a GOTOHOMEPOSITION command that causes said robot to move said head to a home position. 4. A method for controlling a robot through a broadband network, comprising: generating a SAVEHEADPOSITION command that causes a robot to save a position of a robot head; transmitting the SAVEHEADPOSITION command through a broadband network; receiving the SAVEHEADPOSITION command at the robot that has a camera and a monitor; generating at least one reporting command at the robot; transmitting the reporting command through the broadband network; and, receiving the reporting command at a remote station. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising transmitting a RESTOREHEADPOSITION command that causes the robot to restore the head to the saved position. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising transmitting a GOTOHOMEPOSITION command that causes the robot to move the head to a home position. 