A simulated consciousness method (10) for an improved human/computer interface. A computer system (12) is programmed to have a Digital Life Form (32) possessing a plurality of attributes (65). A plurality of actions (64) taken relative to objects (60) in the environment (30) contribute to simulated feelings (76) which ultimately control the viability of the Digital Life Form (32). When there are not sufficient energy packets (66) to sustain the Digital Life Form (32) then simulated death 52 results. Therefore, only actions (64) which contribute to the viability of the Digital Life Form (32) are repeated in the long-run. Some of those actions (64) include perception of reality, concept formation, and natural language processing.
Claims I claim: 1. A computer generated entity, comprising: a plurality of attributes, wherein at least one such attribute defines the vitality of the entity; and a plurality of actions, at least one of which will affect the vitality of the entity; wherein said actions simulate actions by the entity on objects in an environment; the environment is a computer generated simulated environment; and the computer generated entity identifies the objects by calculating one or more percepts identified with the objects. 2. The computer generated entity of claim 1, wherein: simulated death occurs when the actions result in a reduction of vitality below a preset level; and the computer generated entity chooses such actions so as to avoid the simulated death. 3. The computer generated entity of claim 1, wherein: vitality level is determined by a quantity of energy packets. 4. A computer interface, comprising: a digital life form having a plurality of attributes; a plurality of actions which may be accomplished by the digital life form; and a selection criteria for selecting from said plurality of actions; wherein repeated selection of actions which do not contribute to the vitality of the digital life form will result in the simulated death of the digital life form, and said digital life form perceives a plurality of objects in an environment; said objects are identified by the digital life form according to percepts; the percepts are perceived properties of the objects; and said actions are selected to optimize vitality dependant upon the particular objects perceived so as to benefit the digital life form wherein benefit is defined as serving the needs of the digital life form by keeping it alive. 5. The computer interface of claim 4, wherein: said actions are taken to optimize at least one of a plurality of simulated feelings. 6. The computer interface of claim 5, wherein: at least one of the simulated feelings is a feeling of fullness. 7. The computer interface of claim 6, wherein: the feeling of fullness is represented by a quantity of energy packets. 8. A computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied thereon configured to operate on a computer, comprising: code to cause the computer to keep track of a list of attributes of a digital life form; code for causing the digital life form to formulate concepts based on at least one percept of at least one object; and code to cause the computer to cause the digital life form to take actions based upon the concepts in order to maintain its own vitality. 9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein: at least some of the concepts are defined by a human tutor. 10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein: said actions are selected from a list of actions programmed into the computer. 11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein: at least one consequence of the selection of said actions is the termination of the digital life form. 12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein: at least one of the attributes of the digital life form is a simulated feeling. 13. A method for creating a digital life form, comprising: defining a digital life form; providing access for the digital life form to an environment; defining a plurality of potential actions for the digital life form; providing at least one object in the environment; providing the object with at least one characteristic; providing the digital life form with the ability to form percepts based on the characteristics of objects; providing the digital life form with the ability to select from said plurality of potential actions based, at least in part, on the percepts; and providing consequences to the digital life form for such actions; wherein the digital life form selects from said plurality of potential actions in order to avoid certain of the consequences. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein: said digital life form includes a plurality of attributes. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein: said environment is a computer generated simulated environment. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein: at least one of said actions includes EAT. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein: EAT is defined as assimilating energy packets to increase the vitality of said digital life form. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein: at least one consequences of said actions is the simulated death of said digital life form. 19. The method of claim 13, and further including: providing a strategy for selecting from said plurality of actions. 20. A method for making a simulated consciousness, comprising; identifying perceived characteristics of objects in an environment based on perceptions of the objects; storing lists of said characteristics; and forming concepts by comparing similarities in the perceived characteristics. 21. The method of claim 20, and further including: acting on at least one of said objects according to the perceived characteristics of that object for the self benefit of an entity achieving the simulated consciousness. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein: said lists are percepts. 23. A method for forming concepts in a Digital Life Form, comprising: forming percepts based on perceived characteristics of objects; using said perceived characteristics to form concepts; and acting on said concepts for the benefit of the Digital Life Form, itself. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein: concepts are compared to form other concepts in hierarchical conceptual chains. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein: concepts are associated with natural language words. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein: natural language words are associated into phrases, the meaning of which is the union of the concepts and one or more conceptual chains that ultimately connect all the concepts in said conceptual chains to the associated percepts. 