A production system for manufacturing a workpiece comprises an index system including a plurality of index devices removably mounted on the workpiece at known longitudinally spaced locations therealong, and a longitudinally extending index member releasably engaged with at least two of the index devices such that a position and orientation of the index member are fixed relative to the workpiece by the index devices, the index member having position-indicating features distributed therealong. The production system further comprises a machine module mounted for longitudinal movement along the index member and operable to perform an operation, the machine module being operable to detect the position-indicating features on the index member and thereby determine a position of the machine module relative to the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A production system comprising: an index device for mounting on a workpiece to be used as a reference feature in manufacturing operations, comprising: a housing structured and arranged to attach to the workpiece and engage a hole formed in the workpiece so as to locate the index device relative to the workpiece, said housing configured to be carried by the workpiece during the manufacturing operations; and a machine-readable microchip carried by the housing, the microchip programmed to store a unique identifier, whereby the identifier is configured to be correlated with the location of the index device on the workpiece; and a controller configured to retrieve process information based on the unique identifier, wherein the process information is correlated with the unique identifier and defines work operations to be performed within a zone of the workpiece that is identified by the unique identifier. 2. The production system of claim 1, wherein the housing has a generally pin-shaped configuration. 3. The production system of claim 1, wherein the housing has a first portion and a second portion that are each larger than the hole in the workpiece so as to engage opposite sides of the workpiece, are positioned on opposite sides of the workpiece and are connected together by a shaft passing through the hole in the workpiece. 4. The production system of claim 3, wherein each of the first and second portions defines at least one datum surface providing a position reference. 5. The production system of claim 3, wherein the microchip is located in one of the first and second portions, and the other of the portions has a second microchip therein for storing a unique identifier. 6. The production system of claim 3 wherein the first and second portions of the housing are configured to mechanically engage one another. 7. The production system of claim 6 wherein one of the first and second portions comprises a shaft configured to extend through the hold in the workpiece and engage the other one of the first and second portions. 8. The production system of claim 1, wherein the housing defines at least X and Y datum surfaces providing X and Y position references. 9. The production system of claim 8, wherein the housing further defines a Z datum surface providing a Z position reference. 10. The production system of claim 1 wherein the microchip is carried by the housing so as to be physically contacted by a reader. 11. The production system of claim 1 wherein the housing comprises visual indicia configured to identify the index device. 12. An index device for mounting on a workpiece to be used as a reference feature in manufacturing operations, the workpiece comprising opposite sides that face in opposite directions, the index device comprising: a housing structured and arranged to attach to the workpiece and engage a hole formed in the workpiece so as to locate the index device relative to the workpiece, wherein the housing has a first portion and a second portion that are each larger than the hole in the workpiece and are positioned outside of the hole proximate the opposite sides of the workpiece so as to engage the opposite sides of the workpiece, and wherein the first and second portions are mechanically connected together by a shaft passing through the hole in the workpiece which otherwise spaces the first portion from the second portion; and a machine-readable microchip carried by the housing, the microchip programmed to store a unique identifier, wherein the identifier is configured to be correlated with the location of the index device on the workpiece. 13. The index device of claim 12, wherein each of the first and second portions defines at least one datum surface providing a position reference. 14. The index device of claim 12, wherein the microchip is located in one of the first and second portions, and the other of the portions has a second microchip therein for storing a unique identifier. 15. The index device of claim 12, wherein the housing defines at least X and Y datum surfaces providing X and Y position references. 16. The index device of claim 15, wherein the housing further defines a Z datum surface providing a Z position reference. 17. The index device of claim 12 wherein the microchip is carried by the housing so as to be physically contacted by a reader. 18. The index device of claim 12 wherein the housing comprises visual indicia configured to identify the index device. 