In one aspect, a substrate loading station for a processing tool includes plural load ports. Each load port is operatively coupled to the processing tool and has a mechanism for opening a substrate carrier. A carrier handler transports substrate carriers from a factory exchange location to the load ports without placing the carriers on any carrier support location other than the load ports. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of supplying substrates to a processing tool, comprising: providing a plurality of load ports having a plurality of direct transfer locations, each load port having a direct transfer location and having a mechanism adapted to open a substrate carrier supported at the direct transfer location, wherein each load port is free of any carrier support location other than the direct transfer location; providing a factory exchange location at which the substrate carrier is exchanged with a substrate carrier transport device while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier transport device; providing a carrier handler having an end effector adapted to contact the substrate carrier and disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier transport device while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier transport device, the carrier handler being adapted to remove the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location, to place the substrate carrier only at the load port directly after removing the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location, to remove the substrate carrier from the load port, and to place the substrate carrier at only the factory exchange location directly after removing the substrate carrier from the load port; wherein carrier support locations other than the carrier handler, the factory exchange location, and the plurality of direct transfer locations of the plurality of load ports are absent; receiving a first plurality of substrate carriers at the factory exchange location from the substrate carrier transport device via the carrier handler; and providing a controller programmed to perform the steps of: for each substrate carrier of the first plurality of substrate carriers: transporting the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location directly to the direct transfer location of a respective one of the plurality of load ports, wherein an absence of carrier support locations other than the direct transfer location is provided to which the carrier handler is adapted to transport the substrate carrier during transporting the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location directly to the direct transfer location; docking and opening the substrate carrier at the respective load port; undocking and closing the substrate carrier at the respective load port; transporting the substrate carrier from the direct transfer location of the respective load port directly to the factory exchange location, wherein an absence of carrier support locations other than the factory exchange location is provided to which the carrier handler is adapted to transport the substrate carrier during transporting the substrate carrier from the direct transfer location directly to the factory exchange location; and returning the substrate carrier to the substrate carrier transport device via the carrier handler while the substrate carrier transport device is in motion. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate carriers are single substrate carriers. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of providing a plurality of load ports comprises providing two stacks of load ports. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the carrier handler moves the substrate carriers only within an envelope defined by footprints of the two stacks of load ports. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the docking of each substrate carrier occurs simultaneously with opening of the respective substrate carrier. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the factory exchange location and the load ports have substantially the same footprint. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the factory exchange location is at a height greater than respective heights of all of the load ports. 8. A substrate loading station for a processing tool, comprising: a first plurality of load ports having a plurality of direct transfer locations, operatively coupled to the processing tool and each load port having a direct transfer location and having a mechanism adapted to open a substrate carrier supported at the direct transfer location, wherein each load port is free of any carrier support location other than the direct transfer location; a factory exchange location at which the substrate carrier is exchanged with a substrate carrier transport device while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier transport device; and a carrier handler having an end effector adapted to contact the substrate carrier and disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier transport device while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier transport device, the carrier handler being adapted to remove the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location, to place the substrate carrier only at the load port directly after removing the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location, to remove the substrate carrier from the load port, and to place the substrate carrier at only the factory exchange location directly after removing the substrate carrier from the load port; wherein carrier support locations other than the carrier handler, the factory exchange location, and the plurality of direct transfer locations of the plurality of load ports are absent; wherein the factory exchange location is adapted to receive a first plurality of substrate carriers from the substrate carrier transport device via the carrier handler wherein the carrier handler has a controller programmed to perform the steps of: for each substrate carrier of the first plurality of substrate carriers: transporting the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location directly to the direct transfer location of a respective one of the plurality of load ports, wherein an absence of carrier support locations other than the direct transfer location is provided to which the carrier handler is adapted to transport the substrate carrier during transporting the substrate carrier from the factory exchange location directly to the direct transfer location; docking and opening the substrate carrier at the respective load port; undocking and closing the substrate carrier at the respective load port; transporting the substrate carrier from the direct transfer location of the respective load port directly to the factory exchange location, wherein an absence of carrier support locations other than the factory exchange location is provided to which the carrier handler is adapted to transport the substrate carrier during transporting the substrate carrier from the direct transfer location directly to the factory exchange location; and returning the substrate carrier to the substrate carrier transport device via the carrier handler while the substrate carrier transport device is in motion. 9. The substrate loading station of claim 8, wherein the substrate carriers transported by the carrier handler are single substrate carriers. 10. The substrate loading station of claim 8, further comprising: a second plurality of load ports, the second plurality of load ports being spaced apart from and to a side of the first plurality of load ports. 11. The substrate loading station of claim 10, wherein the carrier handler is adapted to move vertically in a space between the first and second pluralities of load ports. 12. The substrate loading station of claim 11, wherein the carrier handler is adapted to move the substrate carriers only within an envelope defined by footprints of the first and second pluralities of load ports. 13. The substrate loading station of claim 8, wherein each of the load ports is adapted to open a substrate carrier simultaneously with the substrate carrier docking with the load port. 14. The substrate loading station of claim 8, wherein the factory exchange location and the load ports have substantially the same footprint. 15. The substrate loading station of claim 8, wherein the substrate carrier transport device is a conveyor. 16. The substrate loading station of claim 8, wherein the factory exchange location is at a height greater than respective heights of all of the load ports. 17. An apparatus adapted to supply substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler adapted to transport a substrate carrier to a first load port of the processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier, wherein the load port is free of any carrier support location other than a direct transfer location, and; and a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor, the controller further operative to perform the steps of: transporting the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor directly to the direct transfer location of the first load port, wherein an absence of carrier support locations other than the direct transfer location is provided to which the substrate carrier handler is adapted to transport the substrate carrier during transporting the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor directly to the direct transfer location; docking and opening the substrate carrier at the first load port; undocking and closing the substrate carrier at the first load port; and returning the substrate carrier directly to the substrate carrier conveyor from the direct transfer location, wherein an absence of carrier support locations other than the substrate carrier conveyor is provided to which the substrate carrier handler is adapted to transport the substrate carrier during returning the substrate carrier directly to the substrate carrier conveyor from the direct transfer location. 