A sensing device includes an elongated whisker element having a flexible cantilever region and a base region where a change in moment or curvature is generated by bending of the cantilever region when it contacts an object. One or more sensor elements cooperatively associated with the whisker element provide one or more output signals that is/are representative of two orthogonal components of change in moment or curvature at the whisker base region to permit determination of object distance, fluid velocity profile, or object contour (shape) with accounting for lateral slip of the whisker element and frictional characteristics of the object. Multiple sensing devices can be arranged in arrays in a manner to sense object contour without or with adjustment for lateral slip.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Method of sensing, comprising relatively moving an elongated whisker element having a deflectable cantilever region and an object so that the cantilever region bends as a result of contact with the object, determining two components of a change in a whisker bending parameter present at a base region of the whisker element as a result of the bending, and adjusting estimation of object distance by accounting for lateral slip of the whisker element. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein estimation of object distance is adjusted by a factor related to the slope of an object surface that is out of the plane of movement of the whisker. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the adjusting step uses equation 15. 4. The method of claim 1 further including adjusting object distance by a factor related to the slope of an object surface that is out of the plane of movement of the whisker element and also object friction. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the change in the whisker bending parameter comprises a change in moment or a change in curvature at the base region. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the change in the whisker bending parameter comprises changes of two orthogonal components of moment that are determined using strain gages on a mounting body on which the base region of the whisker element is disposed. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein an array of multiple said whisker elements and the object are relatively moved. 8. The method of claim 1 where the whisker element is moved in a tapping mode. 9. A sensing apparatus, comprising an elongated whisker element having a deflectable cantilever region and a base region where a change in a whisker bending parameter is generated by deflection of the cantilever region in contact with an object, one or more sensor elements cooperatively associated with the whisker element to provide one or more outputs that is/are representative of two components of the change in the whisker bending parameter at the base region, and a computer device to estimate distance of the object using the one or more outputs with adjustment of the estimate of distance to account for lateral slip of the whisker element. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the base region of the whisker element is fixed on a mounting body and multiple sensor elements are disposed on the mounting body in a manner to provide output that represents two orthogonal components of change in moment or change in curvature exerted at the base region and transmitted to the mounting body. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the one or more sensor elements comprises strain gages. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the whisker element comprise an elastic metallic wire. 13. A sensing apparatus comprising one or more sensing devices having a whisker element with a deflectable cantilever region and a base region where a change in a whisker bending parameter is generated by deflection of the cantilever region in contact with the object, one or more sensor elements associated with the whisker element to provide one or more outputs that is/are representative of two components of the change in the whisker bending parameter at the base region, a motor to move the one or more sensing devices relative to a reference position such that the whisker element contacts the object, and a computer device to estimate a distance or contour of the object relative to the reference position using the one or more outputs wherein the computer device adjusts the estimate of distance or contour to account for lateral slip of the whisker element by a factor related to the slope of an object surface that is out of the plane of movement of the whisker element. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the computer uses equation 15. 15. The sensing apparatus of claim 13 where the motor moves the one or more sensing devices in a tapping mode. 16. The sensing apparatus of claim 13 wherein the motor rotates the one or more sensing devices. 17. The sensing apparatus of claim 13 wherein more than one sensing devices are disposed in an array. 18. A sensing apparatus comprising one or more sensing devices, each said sensing device comprising an elongated whisker element having a deflectable cantilever region and a base region where a change in moment or change in curvature is generated by deflection of the cantilever region in contact with an object, one or more sensor elements cooperatively associated with the whisker element to provide one or more outputs that is/are representative of the change in moment or curvature at the base region, a motor to move the one or more sensing devices relative to a reference position such that the whisker element contacts the object, and a computer device to estimate a contour of the object using the one or more outputs of the one or more sensing devices wherein the computer device adjusts the estimate of the contour to account for lateral slip of the whisker element. 19. The sensing apparatus of claim 18 wherein the motor rotates the one or more sensing devices. 20. The sensing apparatus of claim 19 wherein more than one sensing devices are disposed in an array. 