The present invention provides essential fungal polynucleotides and their encoded polypeptides, homologues thereof and their uses. Additionally, the invention provides methods for the identification of essential polynucleotides and fungal strains which may be used for drug screening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule consisting of a polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of (a) an isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide consisting of amino acids 1 to 622 of SEQ ID NO:13; and (b) an isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide consisting of amino acids 2 to 622 of SEQ ID NO:13, wherein said encoded polypeptide has arginyl-tRNA synthetase activity. 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is (a). 3. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide consists of nucleotides 1 to 1866 of SEQ ID NO:2. 4. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is (b). 5. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide consists of nucleotides 4 to 1866 of SEQ ID NO:2. 6. A recombinant vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said recombinant vector expresses an isolated polypeptide consisting of amino acids 1 to 622 of SEQ ID NO:13 or an isolated polypeptide consisting of amino acids 2 to 622 of SEQ ID NO:13 when transfected into a host cell under conditions suitable for expression of said polypeptide. 7. An isolated recombinant host cell comprising the recombinant vector of claim 6. 8. A method of making an isolated polypeptide consisting of amino acids 1 to 622 of SEQ ID NO:13 or an isolated polypeptide consisting of amino acids 2 to 622 of SEQ ID NO:13, comprising: (a) culturing the isolated recombinant host cell of claim 7 under conditions such that said polypeptide is expressed; and (b) recovering said polypeptide. 9. An isolated polynucleotide consisting of the complete complementary sequence of (a) or (b) of claim 1. 