Certain embodiments provide a method for crystallizing a GPCR. The method may employ a fusion protein comprising: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), where the first portion comprises the TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of the GPCR; b) a stable, folded protein insertion; and c) a second portion of the GPCR, where the second portion comprises the TM6 and TM7 regions of the GPCR.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising a fusion protein in crystalline form, wherein said fusion protein comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; b) a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; c) a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR. 2. The composition of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring GPCR. 3. The composition of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 4. The composition of claim 1, wherein said first portion or the second portion of the GPCR comprises an affinity tag. 5. The composition of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 6. The composition of claim 1, wherein said GPCR is a receptor for a biogenic amine. 7. The composition of claim 6, wherein said GPCR is a dopamine receptor. 8. The composition of claim 6, wherein said GPCR is a seratonin receptor. 9. The composition of claim 6, wherein said GPCR is an adrenergic receptor. 10. The composition of claim 6, wherein said GPCR is a .beta.2-adrenergic receptor. 11. The composition of claim 1, wherein said GPCR is a melanocortin receptor subtype 4. 12. The composition of claim 1, wherein said GPCR is a ghrelin receptor. 13. The composition of claim 1, wherein said GPCR is a metabotropic glutamate receptor. 14. The composition of claim 1, wherein said GPCR is a chemokine receptor. 15. The composition of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to a wild-type lysozyme. 16. The composition of claim 1, wherein said fusion protein is bound to a ligand for said GPCR. 17. The composition of claim 1, wherein said domain of b) spaces the C-terminal end of the TM5 region and the N-terminal end of the TM6 region of said GPCR such that the closest alpha carbon atoms at said C-terminal end and said N-terminal end are spaced by a distance in the range of from 6 .ANG. to 16 .ANG.. 18. A composition comprising a fusion protein in crystalline form, wherein said fusion protein comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; b) a domain comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme; c) a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR. 19. A composition comprising a polypeptide in crystalline form, wherein said polypeptide comprises, from N-terminus to C-terminus: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is N-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR; b) a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; c) a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is C-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR. 20. The composition of claim 19, wherein said a GPCR is selected from the group consisting of: a receptor for a biogenic amine, a dopamine receptor, a seratonin receptor, an adrenergic receptor, a.beta.2-adrenergic receptor, a melanocortin receptor subtype 4, a ghrelin receptor, a metabotropic glutamate receptor and a chemokine receptor. 21. The composition of claim 19, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 22. The composition of claim 19, wherein the amino acid sequences of said first and second portions of said GPCR are at least 80% identical to a mammalian GPCR. 23. The composition of claim 19, wherein the domain of b) comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 24. The composition of claim 23, wherein the domain of b) comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence of a T4 lysozyme. 25. The composition of claim 19, wherein the domain of b) is in the range of from 100 to 200 amino acids in length. 26. The composition of claim 19, wherein domain of b) spaces the C-terminal end of the first portion of said GPCR and the N-terminal end of the second region of said GPCR so that the closest alpha carbon atoms at said C-terminal end and said N-terminal end are spaced by a distance of in the range of 6 .ANG. to 16 .ANG.. 27. A composition comprising a polypeptide in crystalline form, wherein said polypeptide comprises: a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) comprising an IC3 loop containing a substitution that comprises the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme. 28. The composition of claim 27, wherein said IC3 loop comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 29. The composition of claim 28, wherein said IC3 loop comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme. 30. The composition of claim 29, wherein IC3 loop of said GPCR is in the range of 100-200 amino acids in length. 