An atomizer assembly (10) drives an atomizing bell (108) to apply paint onto a part (14). The atomizer assembly (10) includes a core (24) having at least one paint line (26) extending therethrough, a turbine device (40) circumscribing an axis (A) and disposed in the core (24), and a turbine unit (62) surrounding the pain line (26) and having a shaft (104) rotatable relative the turbine device (40) with several turbine blades (130) connected to the shaft (104). A plurality of nozzles (64, 66, 68) are defined in the turbine device (40) and are positioned relative a turbine wheel (106) connected to the shaft (104) to drive fluid, i.e. gas onto the turbine blades (130). An annular wall (94) extends outwardly from one of the terminal ends of the turbine device (40) to define a seat (96) for engaging the core (24) to maintain a fixed gap between the paint line (26) and the shaft (104) and to eliminate contact therebetween.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An atomizer assembly fluidly communicating with a fluid source for coating a part comprising, a housing, a turbine device received by said housing and having a proximal end and a distal end with a tubular member with a plurality of fins rotatably extending therethrough, an atomizing bell affixed to said tubular member at said distal end generally adjacent said turbine device, a core member defining a seat, and said turbine device including a base plate and a front plate having a pair of core plates disposed between said base plate and said front plate, said pair of core plates defining an intermediate chamber for receiving pressurized fluid from a source of pressurized fluid through a first inlet, said intermediate chamber providing pressurized fluid to said plurality of fins through a plurality of spaced nozzles thereby rotating said tubular member, and each of said plates being received by said seat of said core member. 2. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said front plate includes a seat and said core member presents an inner surface complementary to engage said seat. 3. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said tubular member presents an axis and terminal ends with one of said terminal ends defining a plurality of cut-out portions. 4. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 1 including a turbine wheel rigidly connected to and surrounding said tabular member and a plurality of turbine blades connected to said turbine wheel. 5. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first plate presents a plurality of nozzles defined therein for driving fluid in the angular direction onto said turbine blades. 6. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 5 wherein said plurality of nozzles is further defined by three nozzles oriented in the circumferential direction over an angle range of at least 130.degree. relative to said axis with said nozzles being asymmetrically disposed relative said axis. 7. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 1 including a second inlet defined in said annular chamber for delivering fluid into said annular chamber thereby increasing amount of fluid in said annular chamber to increase the rotational speed of said rotatable turbine wheel as fluid is introduced to said turbine blades through said plurality of nozzles. 8. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 1 including a brake nozzle defined in one of said pair of plates for driving fluid to onto said turbine blades in a direction reverse to the direction of fluid driven through said nozzles thereby decreasing rotational speed of said turbine wheel. 9. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 8 including a reflector disk connected to said turbine wheel for reflecting light to a sensor thereby monitoring rotational speed of said tubular member. 10. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 1 including an air shaping ring disposed around said turbine device for providing shaving air to said atomizing bell there directing atomized paint being atomized by said atomizing bell. 11. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 10 including a biasing device extending from said turbine device for interconnecting said turbine device with said air shaping ring thereby providing constant surface to surface contact between said turbine device and said air shaping ring. 12. An atomizer assembly as set forth in claim 11 wherein said biasing device includes a tubular housing, a ball, and a spring for forcing said ball away from said tubular housing as against said air shaping ring is disposed about said turbine device. 