Exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for assembling electronic devices, such as integrated circuit (IC) chips, by selectively and seating IC elements onto/into a receiving substrate, such as a chip substrate. Specifically, the assembly of IC chips can include embedding IC elements onto the receiving substrate upon softening the receiving substrate. Such softening can be performed by using a softening agent and/or an activatable thermal barrier material. In an exemplary embodiment, pockets can be formed in the receiving substrate using the activatable thermal barrier material for the IC assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling integrated circuits (IC) comprising: providing a chip substrate; selectively softening one or more portions of the chip substrate by a surface treatment; positioning one or more IC elements that are attached to a release layer with respect to the chip substrate such that each IC element contacts a corresponding softened portion of the chin substrate; embedding each IC element into the corresponding softened portion of the chip substrate; and wherein the surface treatment comprises printing a softening agent on a surface of the chip substrate. 2. A method for assembling integrated circuits (IC) comprising: providing a chip substrate; selectively softening one or more portions of the chip substrate by a surface treatment; positioning one or more IC elements that are attached to a release layer with respect to the chip substrate such that each IC element contacts a corresponding softened portion of the chip substrate; embedding each IC element into the corresponding softened portion of the chip substrate; and wherein the surface treatment comprises printing a softening agent on a chip substrate for selectively softening one or more portions of the chip substrate. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising locally encapsulating each embedded IC element. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising printing supporting electronics onto the chip substrate, wherein the supporting electronics electrically contact each exposed IC element. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the element is embedded flush with a surface of the chip substrate. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the element is embedded below a surface of the chip substrate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the softening agent comprises an organic solvent. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the chip substrate comprises a roll-to-roll material. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the release layer comprises a roll-to-roll material. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises plastic. 