A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising: discovering a plurality of devices that are currently connected to the home network, each device being associated with a respective Internet Protocol (IP) address, wherein at least one of the plurality of devices has a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server capability; retrieving a description of at least one device and its capability; based on the retrieved description and capability of the discovered devices, dynamically creating a menu listing the discovered devices for individually selecting each of the discovered devices to cause two devices of the discovered devices to communicate with each other over the home network, wherein creating the menu further includes dynamically creating and updating a device link page from the home network upon adding devices to and removing devices from the home network, wherein the device link page includes at least a device control that is associated with a device that is discovered; and displaying the menu on a display device for a user to individually select each listed device and navigate from the menu. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the menu comprises a web page including a hypertext link to a web page contained within each discovered device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting devices that are currently connected to the home network further comprises autonomously detecting devices that become available as currently powered-on and connected to the home network. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the menu is repainted on the display device upon the adding devices to and the removing devices from the home network. 5. A method for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising: detecting a plurality of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; based on the detected devices, dynamically creating a menu for individually selecting each of said devices to activate said controllable function, wherein creating the menu further includes: dynamically creating a device link page and dynamically generating and updating a device list file upon adding devices to and removing devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, wherein the device link page includes at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected, and associating a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical or textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; and displaying said menu on a display device by displaying said device link page, for a user to individually select each device and activate said controllable function. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the creating the device link page includes: creating the device link page including said device control associated with a device identified in the device list file. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the generating the device list file includes: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device list file. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the creating the device link page further includes: retrieving a logical device name from the device list file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 11. A method for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising: detecting an active state of a plurality of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; based on the detected devices, dynamically creating a menu including a top menu that lists the detected devices for individually selecting each of said detected devices to activate said controllable function, wherein creating the menu further includes dynamically creating a device link page and dynamically generating and updating a device list file upon adding devices to and removing of devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, wherein the device link page includes at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected; displaying said top menu on a display device for a user to individually select each listed device and navigate from the top menu through the menu to activate said controllable function. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said top menu comprises a web page including a hypertext link to a web page contained within each detected device. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the detecting an active status of devices that are currently connected to the home network further comprises autonomously detecting an active status of devices that become available as currently powered-on and connected to the home network. 14. A method for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising: detecting an active state of a plurality of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; based on the detected devices, dynamically creating a menu for individually selecting each of said devices to activate said controllable function wherein creating the menu further includes: dynamically creating a device link page and dynamically generating and updating a device list file upon adding devices to and removing devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, wherein the device link page includes at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected, and associating a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical to textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; and displaying said menu on a display device by displaying said device link page, for a user to individually select each device and activate said controllable function. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the creating the device link page includes: creating the device link page including said device control associated with a device identified in the device list file. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein generating the device list file includes: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device list file. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the creating the device link page further includes: retrieving a logical device name from the device list file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 20. A home network system for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, comprising: at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled to said at least one processor; a detector device that operates to detect devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; a menu generator module that operates to create a menu including a top menu that lists the detected devices, individually selects each of said detected devices to activate said controllable function, wherein creating the menu further includes dynamically creating a device link page and dynamically generating and updating a device list file upon adding devices to and removing devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, wherein the device link page includes at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected; a display device that operates to display said top menu on a browser for a user to individually select each listed device and navigate from the top menu through the menu to activate said controllable function. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said top menu comprises a web page including a hypertext link to a web page contained within each detected device. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the detector autonomously detects devices that become available as currently powered-on and connected to the home network. 23. A home network system for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, comprising: at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled to said at least one processor; a detector device that operates to detect devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; a menu generator module that operates to create a menu for individually selecting each of said devices to activate said controllable function, wherein the menu comprises a device link page such that the menu generator module dynamically creates the device link page and dynamically generates and updates a device list file upon addition of devices to and removal of devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, the device link page including at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected by the detector, and the menu generator further associates a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical to textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; and a display device that operates to display said menu on a browser by displaying said device link page on the browser based device, for a user to individually select each device and activate said controllable function. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 25. The system of claim 23, wherein the device link page including said device control associated with a device identified in the device list file. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the menu generator module creates the device list file by: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device list file. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the menu generator module creates the device link page by: retrieving a logical device name from the device list file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 29. A home network system for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, comprising: at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled to said at least one processor; a detector device that operates to detect an active state of a plurality of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; a menu generator module that-operates to create a menu structure comprising a top menu that lists the detected devices for individually selecting said detected devices to activate said controllable function, wherein creating the menu further includes dynamically creating a device link page and dynamically generating and updating a device list file upon addition of devices to and removal of devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, wherein the device link page includes at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected; a display device that operates to display said menu on a browser for a user to individually select each listed device and navigate from the top menu through the menu structure to activate said controllable function. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein said top menu comprises a web page including a hypertext link to a web page contained within each detected device. 31. The system of claim 29, wherein the detector autonomously detects an active status of devices that become available as currently powered-on and connected to the home network. 32. A home network system for providing an interface for accessing devices that are currently connected to a home network, comprising: at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled to said at least one processor; a detector device that operates to detect an active state of a plurality of devices that are currently connected to the home network, said devices having at least one controllable function; a menu generator module that operates to create a menu for individually selecting said devices to activate said controllable function wherein the menu comprises a device link page such that the menu generator module dynamically creates the device link page and dynamically generates and updates a device list file upon addition of devices to and removal of devices from the home network, the device list file identifying the detected devices, the device link page including at least a device control that is associated with a device that is detected by the detector, and the menu generator module associates a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to graphical to textual information that is contained in the detected device that is associated with the device control; and a display device that operates to display said menu on a browser by displaying said device link page on the display, for a user to individually select each device and active said controllable function. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein the device link page including said device control associated with a device identified in the device list file. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the menu generator module generates the device list file by: associating a logical device name with the detected device; and storing the logical device name in the device list file. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the menu generator module creates the device link page by: retrieving a logical device name from the device list file; storing the logical device name in the device link page; and converting the logical device name to a device control. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein said device link page comprises a web page or an html page including at least one hypertext link to a web page or an html page contained within said detected device. 