Some problems related to processing workpieces are presented along with solutions to one or more of the problems. One embodiment of the invention comprises a sensor apparatus for collecting data representing one or more process conditions used for processing a workpiece. Another embodiment of the present invention is a combination comprising a sensor apparatus and a process tool for applications such as chemical mechanical planarization of workpieces and chemical mechanical polishing of workpieces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor apparatus comprising: A. a contact plate having a contact surface for undergoing at least one of i. planarization and ii. polishing and a back side; B. at least one sensor connected with the contact plate so as to measure pressure or force applied to the contact surface of the contact plate; C. at least one electronics component coupled to the sensor so as to receive signals from the at least one sensor; and D. a base joined with the back side of the contact plate and configured so that the at least one sensor and the at least one electronic component are sandwiched between the contact plate and the base so as to be substantially isolated from process chemicals. 2. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact plate comprises a sheet of metal. 3. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact plate comprises a material used in the fabrication of integrated circuits. 4. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact plate comprises a sheet of tungsten, a sheet of aluminum alloy, a sheet of silicon dioxide, a sheet of boron phosphorous silicate glass, a sheet of fluorine doped silicon dioxide, a sheet of diamond like carbon, a sheet of diamond, a sheet of carbon doped silicon dioxide, a sheet of silicon, a sheet of fused silica, a sheet of quartz, a sheet of borosilicate glass, a sheet of alumina, a sheet of sapphire, or a sheet of a low dielectric constant silicon compound. 5. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact plate comprises a supported layer of tungsten, a supported layer of aluminum alloy, a supported layer of silicon dioxide, a supported layer of boron phosphorous silicate glass, a supported layer of fluorine doped silicon dioxide, a supported layer of diamond like carbon, a supported layer of diamond, a supported layer of carbon doped silicon dioxide, a supported layer of silicon, a supported layer of fused silica, a supported layer of quartz, a supported layer of borosilicate glass, a supported layer of alumina, a supported layer of sapphire, or a supported layer of a low dielectric constant silicon compound. 6. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact surface comprises copper. 7. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact surface comprises a material having a dielectric constant less than about 2.1. 8. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact surface includes a surface topography for being planarized. 9. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact surface is substantially smooth and substantially flat. 10. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact surface includes a surface topography used in the fabrication of an integrated circuit. 11. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising an adhesive between the backside of the contact plate and the base, the adhesive being applied so as to join the base to the contact plate. 12. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a spacer for substantially filling voids between the backside of the contact plate and the base, the spacer being substantially incompressible. 13. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a force transmitting medium, the force transmitting medium being disposed so as to transmit force from the contact plate to the at least one sensor. 14. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a force transmitting medium, the force transmitting medium being disposed so as to transmit force from the contact plate to the at least one sensor, the medium comprising a gel. 15. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a force transmitting medium, the force transmitting medium being disposed so as to transmit force from the contact plate to the at least one sensor, the medium comprising a solid. 16. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a printed circuit board interconnecting the at least one sensor and the at least one electronic component, the printed circuit board being sandwiched between the contact plate and the base. 17. A sensor apparatus according to claim 16 further comprising an adhesive between the backside of the contact plate and the printed circuit board, the adhesive being applied so as to affix the printed circuit board to the contact plate; the printed circuit board having a through hole proximate the sensor; the through hole being capable of providing fluid communication between the contact plate and the sensor. 18. A sensor apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the adhesive comprises a removable adhesive between the backside of the contact plate and the printed circuit board, the adhesive being applied so as to detachably affix the printed circuit board to the contact plate. 19. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a plurality of pressure sensors disposed so as to be capable of measuring spatial pressure distributions for the contact surface. 20. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a plurality of pressure sensors disposed so as to be capable of measuring spatial pressure distributions for the contact surface and at least one temperature sensor for measuring a temperature representing a temperature of the contact surface. 21. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a plurality of pressure sensors disposed so as to be capable of measuring spatial pressure distributions for the contact surface and a plurality of temperature sensors disposed so as to be capable of measuring spatial temperature distributions for the contact surface. 22. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one electronic component is capable of at least one of storing data from the at least one sensor, transmitting data, and executing computer commands. 23. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one electronic component is capable of wirelessly transmitting data and wirelessly receiving commands. 24. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one electronic component comprises an information processor. 25. A sensor apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the contact plate comprises a substantially whole semiconductor wafer. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a plurality of pressure sensors, the sensor apparatus having a plurality of cavities, the pressure sensors are contained within the cavities, the cavities containing a low modulus gel or a liquid. 27. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a plurality of pressure sensors, the pressure sensors comprise silicon diaphragms that include an integral strain measuring resistive bridge. 28. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a plurality of pressure sensors, the pressure sensors comprise silicon diaphragms and contain a reference vacuum cavity. 29. A sensor apparatus for measuring spatially resolved process conditions for chemical mechanical planarization of substrates, the substrates having a mechanical stiffness, the sensor apparatus comprising: A. a contact plate having a contact surface for undergoing chemical mechanical planarization and a back side; B. a plurality of sensors connected with the contact plate so as to measure process conditions for the contact plate; C. a filler disposed between the contact plate and the sensors; D. at least one electronics component coupled to the sensors so as to receive signals from the sensors; E. a printed circuit board for interconnecting the sensors and the at least one electronics component; F. a base joined with the back side of the contact plate and configured so that the sensors, the at least one electronics component, and the printed circuit board are sandwiched between the contact plate and the base; G. a spacer for substantially filling the space between the printed circuit board, the at least one electronics component and the base; and wherein, the sensor apparatus is configured so as to have a mechanical stiffness substantially equal to the mechanical stiffness of the substrates. 30. A sensor apparatus according to claim 29 wherein the plurality of sensors comprises temperature sensors. 31. A sensor apparatus according to claim 29 wherein the plurality of sensors comprises pressure sensors. 32. A sensor apparatus according to claim 29 wherein the plurality of sensors comprises temperature sensors and pressure sensors. 33. A sensor apparatus according to claim 29 wherein the filler and the spacer have substantially the same material properties. 