The present invention relates to novel sequences for use in detection, diagnosis and treatment of cancers, especially lymphomas. The invention provides cancer-associated (CA) polynucleotide sequences whose expression is associated with cancer. The present invention provides CA polypeptides associated with cancer that are present on the cell surface and present novel therapeutic targets against cancer. The present invention further provides diagnostic compositions and methods for the detection of cancer. The present invention provides monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies specific for the CA polypeptides. The present invention also provides diagnostic tools and therapeutic compositions and methods for screening, prevention and treatment of cancer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of diagnosing prostate cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer or breast cancer comprising: a) determining the level of an expression product encoding a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:168 and SEQ ID NO:184 in a patient prostate, colon, stomach, or breast sample; and b) comparing said level of the expression product in (a) to a level of the expression product in a second sample, said second sample comprising a normal prostate, colon, stomach, or breast tissue sample, wherein a difference between the level of the expression product in (a) and the level of the expression product in the second sample indicates that the patient has prostate cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer or breast cancer; wherein said polypeptide is a calcium-activated potassium channel. 2. A method of diagnosing prostate cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer or breast cancer comprising: a) determining the level of an expression product comprising a nucleotide sequence which encodes a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:184, in a patient prostate, colon, stomach or breast sample; and b) comparing said level of the expression product in (a) to a level of the expression product in a second sample, said second sample comprising a normal prostate, colon, stomach or breast sample, wherein a difference between the level of the expression product in (a) and the level of the expression product in the second sample indicates that the patient has prostate cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer or breast cancer. 