The Universal Automatic Instant Money, Data and Gold Transfer Machine, Uncle GEM II, system is a multiplicity of devices on a communications network available 24 hours a day, used interchangeably as sender, receiver and dispenser of funds and data. The sender accepts standard currency and includes removable medium storage devices to transfer to another such device acting as a receiver/dispenser. Remitted amounts are inserted or deducted from credit/debit accounts or currency and who pays the fees charged is indicated by an initiator of the transaction. Transfer transaction information includes: the type of transfer (money/funds or data); which device deducts the fee; how much money or what data to transfer; and to who and where the transfer transaction is to be made available. A receipt is generated by the sender via the system and a receiver becomes a dispenser when the recipient retrieves a pending transaction using the appropriate password or identification. The cash, data, or financial instrument is then dispensed. The Uncle GEMs also feature acceptance of alternate payment options, such as, precious metal coins, i.e., gold, silver and platinum, and precious stones, i.e. diamonds, sapphires, and rubies. In essence, virtually anything can be bought, purchased, bartered, traded or sold. Smartcards, phonecards and store specific cards can be used to buy goods and services, can be bought, or can be reloaded using the Uncle GEM II system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device, comprising: a user interface configured to receive information from a user; a network interface; a dispenser mechanism configured to dispense a precious stone in response to the information received from the user by the user interface; wherein the device is configured to send, to a financial institution via the network interface, information that indicates a value associated with the dispensed precious stone to be debited from an account. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is further configured to: prior to dispensing the precious stone, receive acknowledgment from the financial institution that the account includes available funds of at least the value associated with the precious stone; and display an acknowledgement of a debit to the account; wherein the debit is based on the value associated with the precious stone, and wherein the information received from the user by the user interface indicates the account. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the dispenser mechanism is further configured to: dispense a precious metal; send, to the financial institution via the network interface, information that indicates a value associated with the dispensed precious metal to be debited from the account. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the precious metal is platinum or palladium. 5. The device of claim 3, wherein the precious metal is a coin. 6. The device of claim 3, wherein the device is further configured to: assay the precious metal; and determine the value associated with precious metal based on the assaying. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is further configured to: identify the precious stone; and determine the value associated with the precious stone based on the identifying. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the identifying the precious stone includes imaging at least a portion of the precious stone. 9. The device of claim 6, wherein the precious stone is diamond, emerald, topaz, tanzanite, sapphire, or ruby. 10. The device of claim 1, further comprising an acceptor mechanism configured to receive a second precious stone. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the device is further configured to: identify the received second precious stone at least in part by imaging at least a portion of the received second precious stone; determine a value associated with the received second precious stone based on the identifying; and send, to the financial institution via the network interface, information that indicates the value associated with the received second precious stone. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein the device is further configured to: receive a second precious metal; identify the received second precious metal at least in part by assaying the received second precious metal; determine a value associated with the received second precious metal based on the identifying; and send, to the financial institution via the network interface, information that indicates the value associated with the received second precious stone. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the account is a savings account or a credit account of the user. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein the account is an inventory account. 15. A device, comprising: a user interface configured to receive information from a user; an acceptor mechanism configured to receive a precious stone; and a network interface; wherein the device is configured to: identify the received precious stone; determine a value associated with the received precious stone; and send, to a financial institution via the network interface, information indicating that the value associated with the received precious stone is to be credited to an account that is indicated by the information received from the user by the user interface. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the device is further configured to: receive a precious metal; and identify the received precious metal at least in part by assaying the received precious metal; and send, to a financial institution via the network interface, information indicating that the value associated with the received precious metal is to be credited to the account. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the received precious metal is platinum or palladium. 18. The device of claim 16, wherein the received precious metal is a coin. 19. The device of claim 15, wherein device is configured to identify the received precious stone at least in part by imaging at least a portion of the received precious stone. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the received precious stone is diamond, emerald, topaz, tanzanite, sapphire, or ruby. 21. The device of claim 15, wherein the device is configured to: receive acknowledgment from the financial institution of the credit to the account; and display the acknowledgement of the credit to the account. 22. A method comprising: a device receiving a precious stone; the device identifying the received precious stone; the device determining a value associated with the received precious stone; and the device sending information to a financial institution via the network interface, wherein the sent second information indicates that the value associated with the received precious stone is to be credited to an account. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the identifying the received precious stone includes imaging at least a portion of the precious stone. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising: the device receiving a precious metal; the device identifying the received metal; the device determining a value associated with the received precious metal; and the device sending, to the financial institution via the network interface, indicating that the value associated with the received precious metal is to be credited to the account. 25. A method comprising: a device dispensing a precious stone; the device sending information to a financial institution via a network interface, wherein the sent second information indicates a value associated with the dispensed precious stone is to be debited from an account. 