Disclosed is a method, system and apparatus for use in remotely and internally tapping a conduit. The method is performed, at least partially, by an automatic mechanism or robot configured to effectively perform the tasks and various steps of the method. The method includes the steps of: (a) lining a conduit with a liner; and (b) inserting an automatic mechanism into an internal portion of the liner, wherein the automatic mechanism (i) locates a service tap connection point; and (ii) at least partially engages a fitting device within an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between a service tap internal passageway and an internal portion of the liner. An automatic mechanism, a fitting device and an insert element are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for remotely tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the method comprising: inserting an automatic mechanism into the internal portion of the conduit, wherein the automatic mechanism: (i) locates the service tap connection point; and (ii) prepares the internal surface of the service tap entry portion for lining of the conduit; removing the automatic mechanism from the conduit; lining the conduit with a liner; and inserting the automatic mechanism into an internal portion of the liner, wherein the automatic mechanism: (i) locates the service tap connection point; and (ii) at least partially engages a fitting device with an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap internal passageway and the internal portion of the liner. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the automatic mechanism from the internal portion of the liner. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatic mechanism is a robot configured to travel within at least one of the internal portion of the conduit and the internal portion of the liner. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing fluid communication between the service tap connection point and a service line, such that fluid material flows from the conduit to the service line. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising boring an orifice, by the automatic mechanism, through a wall of the liner, such that the liner orifice is substantially in line with the service tap internal passageway. 6. A method for remotely tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the method comprising: lining the conduit with a liner; inserting an automatic mechanism into an internal portion of the liner, wherein the automatic mechanism: (i) locates the service tap connection point; and (ii) at least partially engages a fitting device with an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap internal passageway and the internal portion of the liner, wherein the fitting device comprises a nipple portion and a locking portion; and directly or indirectly sealingly engaging the locking portion of the fitting device with an internal wall of the liner. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein, prior to engaging the locking portion, the method further comprises positioning a gasket element at least partially around at least a portion of at least one of the nipple portion and the locking portion in an abutting relationship with the internal wall of the liner, such that the engaging the locking portion with the internal wall of the liner compresses the gasket element directly against the internal wall of the liner. 8. A fitting device for use in connection with tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, an internal surface of the conduit being lined with a liner having an internal portion, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the fitting device comprising: (i) a nipple portion configured to at least partially engage an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap passageway and an internal portion of the liner; and (ii) a locking portion configured to directly or indirectly sealingly engage the fitting device with an internal wall of the liner. 9. The device of claim 8, further comprising a gasket element positioned around at least a portion of at least one of the nipple portion and the locking portion in an abutting relationship with the internal wall of the liner, such that the gasket element is compressed directly against the internal wall of the liner when the nipple portion is at least partially engaged with the internal surface of the service tap entry portion. 10. The device of claim 8, wherein the nipple portion and the locking portion of the fitting device are formed as an integral structure. 11. A method for remotely tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the method comprising: lining the conduit with a liner; and inserting an automatic mechanism into an internal portion of the liner, wherein the automatic mechanism: (i) locates the service tap connection point; and (ii) at least partially engages a fitting device with an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap internal passageway and the internal portion of the liner. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the automatic mechanism locates the service tap connection point by sensing the location thereof. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of removing the automatic mechanism from the internal portion of the liner. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the automatic mechanism is a robot configured to travel within at least one of the internal portion of the conduit and the internal portion of the liner. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of boring an orifice, by the automatic mechanism, through a wall of the liner, such that the liner orifice is substantially in line with the service tap internal passageway. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the fitting device comprises a nipple portion configured to at least partially engage an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap passageway and an internal portion of the liner; and a locking portion configured to directly or indirectly sealingly engage the fitting device with an internal wall of the liner. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the nipple portion and the locking portion of the device are formed as an integral structure. 18. An automatic mechanism for remotely tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of a conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the automatic mechanism configured to at least: (i) locate the service tap connection point; (ii) prepare an internal surface of a service tap entry portion of the service tap body, such that the internal surface is configured for operable engagement with the internal portion of the conduit; and (iii) at least partially engage a fitting device with the internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap passageway and an internal portion of a liner, which lines at least a portion of the internal portion of the conduit. 19. The automatic mechanism of claim 18, wherein the automatic mechanism is a robot configured to travel within at least one of the internal portion of the conduit and the internal portion of the liner. 20. The automatic mechanism of claim 18, wherein the automatic mechanism further comprises at least one of the following: (i) a control mechanism configured to control at least one of a component and operation of the automatic mechanism; (ii) a user interface configured to communicate with a remote user control mechanism; (iii) at least one sensor mechanism to sense at least one of an operating parameter of the automatic mechanism and a physical characteristic of a surrounding environment; (iv) a camera mechanism configured to provide visual feedback to a remote user control mechanism; and (v) a contact mechanism configured to at least one of: prepare a surface for engagement; bore an orifice; manipulate a component or any combination thereof, or any combination thereof. 