A device for mounting a driving robot in a motor vehicle, the motor vehicle having two driver's seat tracks and a floor, utilizing the two seat tracks of the driver's seat for anchoring purposes, the device including: a length-adjustable adapter plate that engages into both seat tracks in a hook-like manner; at least one first locking element for locking the adapter plate in the seat tracks; and at least one second height-adjustable locking element for bracing the adapter plate against the vehicle floor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for mounting a driving robot in a motor vehicle, the motor vehicle having a floor and two driver's seat tracks mounted on the floor, utilizing the two seat tracks of the driver's seat for anchoring purposes, said device comprising: a length-adjustable adapter plate that engages into both seat tracks in a hook-like manner; at least one first locking element for locking said adapter plate in the seat tracks; and at least one second height-adjustable locking element for bracing said adapter plate against the vehicle floor. 2. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: height-adjustable supporting elements supported on said adapter plate; a base plate for accommodating the driving robot supported by said supporting elements, said base plate having a front end and a rear end and said front end of said base plate being supported by said supporting elements; and a height-adjustable and width-adjustable support supported on the vehicle floor and supporting said rear end of said base plate. 3. The device according to claim 2, wherein said adapter plate comprises: a top plate for accommodating said supporting elements; a middle plate disposed below said top plate; and two second locking elements mounted to said middle plate. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein said adapter plate further comprises: two arms having outer ends, said two arms being mounted beneath said middle plate and being slidable with respect to said middle plate transversely to the length dimension of the motor vehicle; and said at least one first locking element comprises engaging devices mounted at said outer ends of said two arms and adapted to engage with the seat tracks. 5. The device according to claim 4, wherein: said at least one first locking element comprises two first locking elements each engageable in a respective seat track; said two arms are provided with bores at said outer ends for holding said first locking elements; and said engaging devices are adapted to be clamped to the seat tracks. 6. The device according to claim 4, wherein at least one of said two arms is provided with bores for optionally accommodating a snap-in button disposed in said middle plate. 7. The device according to claim 2, wherein said support comprises at least one vertical support that rests on the vehicle floor. 8. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: height-adjustable supporting elements supported on said adapter plate; and a base plate for accommodating the driving robot supported by said supporting elements, said base plate having a front end and a rear end and said front end of said base plate being supported by said supporting elements; wherein said adapter plate comprises: a top plate for accommodating said supporting elements; a middle plate disposed below said top plate; and two second locking elements mounted to said middle plate. 9. The device according to claim 8, wherein said adapter plate further comprises: two arms having outer ends, said two arms being mounted beneath said middle plate and being slidable with respect to said middle plate transversely to the length dimension of the motor vehicle; and said at least one first locking element comprises engaging devices mounted at said outer ends of said two arms and adapted to engage with the seat tracks. 10. The device according to claim 9, wherein: said at least one first locking element comprises two first locking elements each engageable in a respective seat track; said two arms are provided with bores at said outer ends for holding said first locking elements; and said engaging devices are adapted to be clamped to the seat tracks. 11. The device according to claim 10, wherein at least one of said two arms is provided with bores for optionally accommodating a snap-in button disposed in said middle plate. 