A system is described for capturing images comprising: a display for displaying graphical images and text; a plurality of apertures formed in the display; an image detector array configured behind the display and configured to sense light transmitted through the apertures in the display, the light reflected from a subject positioned in front of the display; and image processing logic to generate image data using the light transmitted through the apertures, the image data representing an image of a subject.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing system for capturing images comprising: a display for displaying graphical images and text; a plurality of apertures formed in the display in front of an image detector array, the plurality of apertures arranged according to a coded aperture mask pattern, wherein the coded aperture mask pattern is arranged to cause an overlapping of images projected through the apertures onto the image detector array, the coded aperture mask pattern comprising an arrangement of apertures further characterized by at least one of: a plurality of different aperture sizes; a plurality of different aperture shapes; a plurality of different distances between respective midpoints of neighboring apertures along a same axis of the mask pattern; wherein the image detector array is positioned behind the plurality of apertures to sense light within a visible spectrum transmitted through apertures in the display, the light reflected from substantially unconstrained scenery positioned in front of the display; the apertures having a specified, width, height and thickness to establish maximum angles at which the visible light from the unconstrained scenery can pass through the coded aperture mask pattern in a first dimension and a second dimension and reach the image detector array; a readout subsystem comprising an analog to digital ("A/D") converter having a specified dynamic range, the A/D converter configured to receive an analog signal from the image detector array and to responsively convert the analog signal to a digital signal, the analog signal comprising an analog representation of the overlapping images transmitted through the apertures and the digital signal comprising a digital representation of the overlapping images transmitted through the apertures, wherein the readout subsystem further comprises logic and/or circuitry electrically coupled to the light sensitive image detector array and the A/D converter, the logic and/or circuitry to apply zero offset and gain values to analog signals output from the light sensitive image detector array, the values of zero offset and gain selected based on the specified dynamic range of the A/D converter; and digital image processing logic to process the digital signal and generate a reconstructed image of the unconstrained environment by reduction of crosstalk from objects in the scene at multiple ranges. 2. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the display is a light emitting diode ("LED") display. 3. The data processing system as in claim 2 wherein LEDs of the display are arranged into groups of one red LED, one blue LED and two green LEDs, and wherein the apertures are formed in place of one of the two green LEDs for at least some of the groups. 4. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the image detector array is a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor ("CMOS") array comprised of a plurality of CMOS image sensors. 5. The data processing system as in claim 4 wherein the display comprises OLED elements and wherein the OLED elements of the display are arranged into groups of one red OLED element, one blue OLED element and two green OLED elements, and wherein the apertures are formed in place of one of the two green OLED elements for at least some of the groups. 6. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the image detector array is comprised of a plurality of Charge Coupled Devices ("CCDs"). 7. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the image processing logic comprises coded aperture imaging ("CAI") decoder logic. 8. The data processing system as in claim 7 wherein the apertures are arranged in a Modified Uniformly Redundant Array ("MURA") pattern and wherein the CAI decoder logic comprises MURA decoder logic. 9. The data processing system as in claim 1 further comprising: a graphics processing unit to reproduce an image of the scenery on a display device using the reconstructed image generated by the digital image processing logic. 10. The data processing system as in claim 1 further comprising: a storage device to store the reconstructed image for later retrieval. 11. The data processing system as in claim 1 implemented within a portable data processing device, the portable data processing device having both wireless telephony capabilities and data processing capabilities. 12. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the display is an organic light emitting diode ("OLED") display having a plurality of OLED elements. 13. The data processing system as in claim 4 wherein the coded aperture mask pattern includes transmittive and non-transmittive regions along lines in both of two orthogonal dimensions. 14. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the specified width, height and thickness are sized to limit the field of view (FOV) to be greater than or equal to a fully-coded FOV projected onto the image detector array. 15. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the digital image processing logic adjusts intensity at different regions of the reconstructed image by multiplying each pixel of the reconstructed image by an inverse of a baffle attenuation value the pixel was subjected to. 16. The data processing system as in claim 1 further comprising: a noise-reducing smoothing filter having a filter characteristic adjusted for each pixel or each region of the reconstructed image according to signal-to-noise ratio variations within the reconstructed image. 17. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein the light-sensitive image detector array comprises a color filter array ("CFA") for capturing color images. 18. The data processing system as in claim 1 wherein to generate the reconstructed image, the digital image processing logic performs the additional operation of calculating a periodic cross-correlation function of the digital signal received from the A/D converter with a periodic inverse filter. 19. A data processing system for capturing images comprising: a display for displaying graphical images and text; a plurality of apertures formed in the display in front of an image detector array, the plurality of apertures arranged according to a coded aperture mask pattern, wherein the coded aperture mask pattern is arranged to cause an overlapping of images projected through the apertures onto the image detector array, the coded aperture mask pattern comprising an arrangement of apertures further characterized by at least one of: a plurality of different aperture sizes; a plurality of different aperture shapes; a plurality of different distances between respective midpoints of neighboring apertures along a same axis of the mask pattern; wherein the image detector array is positioned behind the plurality of apertures to sense light within a visible spectrum transmitted through apertures in the display, the light reflected from substantially unconstrained scenery positioned in front of the display; the apertures having a specified, width, height and thickness to limit a field of view (FOV) of the unconstrained environment to be equal to or greater than a fully-coded FOV projected onto the image detector array; a readout subsystem comprising an analog to digital ("A/D") converter having a specified dynamic range, the A/D converter configured to receive an analog signal from the image detector array and to responsively convert the analog signal to a digital signal, the analog signal comprising an analog representation of the overlapping images transmitted through the apertures and the digital signal comprising a digital representation of the overlapping images transmitted through the apertures wherein the readout subsystem further comprises logic and/or circuitry electrically coupled to the light sensitive image detector array and the A/D converter, the logic and/or circuitry to apply zero offset and gain values to analog signals output from the light sensitive image detector array, the values of zero offset and gain selected based on the specified dynamic range of the A/D converter; and digital image processing logic to process the digital signal and generate a reconstructed image of the unconstrained environment, by reduction of crosstalk from objects in the scene at multiple ranges. 20. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein the digital image processing logic adjusts intensity at different regions of the reconstructed image by multiplying each pixel of the reconstructed image by an inverse of a baffle attenuation value the pixel was subjected to. 21. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein the display is a light emitting diode ("LED") display. 22. The data processing system as in claim 21 wherein LEDs of the display are arranged into groups of one red LED, one blue LED and two green LEDs, and wherein the apertures are formed in place of one of the two green LEDs for at least some of the groups. 23. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein the image detector array is a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor ("CMOS") array comprised of a plurality of CMOS image sensors. 24. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein the image detector array is comprised of a plurality of Charge Coupled Devices ("CCDs"). 25. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein the image processing logic comprises coded aperture imaging ("CAI") decoder logic. 26. The data processing system as in claim 25 wherein the apertures are arranged in a Modified Uniformly Redundant Array ("MURA") pattern and wherein the CAI decoder logic comprises MURA decoder logic. 27. The data processing system as in claim 19 further comprising: a graphics processing unit to reproduce an image of the scenery on a display device using the reconstructed image generated by the digital image processing logic. 28. The data processing system as in claim 19 further comprising: a storage device to store the reconstructed image for later retrieval. 29. The data processing system as in claim 19 implemented within a portable data processing device, the portable data processing device having both wireless telephony capabilities and data processing capabilities. 30. The data processing system as in claim 19 further comprising: a noise-reducing smoothing filter having a filter characteristic adjusted for each pixel or each region of the reconstructed image according to signal-to-noise ratio variations within the reconstructed image. 31. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein the image detector array comprises a color filter array ("CFA") for capturing color images. 32. The data processing system as in claim 19 wherein to generate the reconstructed image, the digital image processing logic performs the additional operation of calculating a periodic cross-correlation function of the digital signal received from the A/D converter with a periodic inverse filter. 