An apparatus and method is described to form and join a short flange on a periphery of a sheet material supported in a nest (30). The apparatus includes a positional pressure forming steel (PPFS) assembly (50) located on the end of a robotic arm (42). The PPFS assembly (50) includes a hub (52) slidably supported in a cylinder (56). At least one tool steel (70, 70', 70'') is located on an extension (68, 68') from the hub (52). A biasing element (58) interposed between the cylinder (56) and the hub (52) enables precise control of the forming pressure by defining a tool path control program which maintains a relative relationship between the PPFS assembly (50) and the nest (30).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for short flange forming, the apparatus comprising: a nest for holding a first sheet material, the nest having a material contacting surface for supporting a perimeter of the first sheet material; a robotic arm operatively associated with said nest; and a forming steel assembly attached at an end of the robotic arm and a tool steel fixedly attached to the forming steel assembly in a stationary position, the tool steel having a wedge-shaped face generally conforming to a short flange which is positionable by the robotic arm along a tool path in a direction generally parallel to the material contacting portion such that the tool steel is moved in spaced relation to the material contacting portion for crash forming the short flange on the first sheet material. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said forming steel assembly comprises an extension extending outwardly therefrom and the tool steel is disposed on an end of said extension. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said robotic arm rotatably supports said forming steel assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said forming steel assembly further comprises a second extension extending outwardly therefrom and a second tool steel disposed on an end of said second extension. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said extension comprises a tiered extension having a first tool steel disposed on an outer portion of said extension and a second tool steel disposed on an inner portion of said extension. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robotic arm rotatably supports said forming steel assembly. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tool steel has a tapered, wedge-shaped face formed thereon. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a mechanical positioner coupled to the forming steel assembly for stabilizing the tool steel during crash forming impact. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the mechanical positioner includes a positional pressure unit operatively associated with the robotic arm and cooperative with the nest for stabilizing the tool steel during crash forming impact. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a computer having a tool-driving program operatively associated with the forming and joining assembly for manipulating and guiding the tool steel along the tool path during crash forming impact. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said forming and joining assembly comprises an extension extending outwardly therefrom and the tool steel disposed on an end of said extension. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said robotic arm rotatably supports said forming and joining assembly. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said forming and joining assembly further comprises a second extension extending outwardly therefrom and a second tool steel disposed on an end of said second extension. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said extension comprises a tiered extension having a first tool steel disposed on an outer portion of said extension and a second tool steel disposed on an inner portion of said extension. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said robotic arm rotatably supports said forming and joining assembly. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said tool steel has a tapered, wedge-shaped face formed thereon. 17. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a mechanical positioner coupled to the forming steel assembly for stabilizing the tool steel during crash forming impact. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the mechanical positioner includes a positional pressure unit operatively associated with the robotic arm and cooperative with the nest for stabilizing the tool steel during crash forming impact. 19. An apparatus for forming and joining a first sheet material to a second sheet material, the first sheet material having a periphery, the periphery having a contour, the apparatus comprising: a nest including a material-contacting portion for holding the first sheet material; a forming and joining assembly operatively associated with said nest, said assembly including a robotic arm and a tool steel fixedly attached at an end of the robotic arm, the tool steel having a wedge-shaped face generally conforming to a short flange for crash forming the short flange and bending the short flange onto said second sheet material between the tool steel and the material contacting portion; a mechanical positioner coupled to the forming steel assembly for stabilizing the tool steel during crash forming impact, wherein the mechanical positioner includes a positional pressure unit operatively associated with the robotic arm and cooperative with the nest; and a computer having a tool-driving program operatively associated with the forming and joining assembly for manipulating and guiding the tool steel along an approach path. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the positional pressure unit further comprises a cylinder and a hub supported within said cylinder for relative sliding movement. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further including a biasing element interposed between said cylinder and said hub. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said biasing element is a spring. 23. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the mechanical positioner includes a roller supported on the positional pressure unit and a guide surface extending from the nest parallel with the approach path. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said forming and joining assembly further comprises an extension extending outwardly from said positional pressure unit in a direction perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said roller and supporting said tool steel on an end of said extension. 25. An apparatus for short flange forming, the apparatus comprising: a nest for holding a first sheet material; a robotic arm operatively associated with said nest; a forming steel assembly including a tool steel fixedly attached at an end of the robotic arm, the tool steel having a wedge-shaped face generally conforming to a short flange for crash forming the short flange on the first sheet material; a mechanical positioner coupled to the forming steel assembly for stabilizing the tool steel during crash forming impact, the mechanical positioner including a positional pressure unit operatively associated with the robotic arm and cooperative with the nest. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the positional pressure unit further comprises a cylinder and a hub supported within said cylinder for relative sliding movement. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 further including a biasing element interposed between said cylinder and said hub. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said biasing element is a spring. 29. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the mechanical positioner includes a roller supported on the positional pressure unit and a guide surface extending from the nest parallel with an approach path of the forming steel assembly. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said forming steel assembly further comprises: an extension extending outwardly from said positional pressure unit in a direction perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said roller, wherein the tool steel is disposed on an end of said extension. 