A mounting for a disk drive unit includes a carrier for carrying a disk drive unit during required movement of the disk drive unit. The carrier defines a space into which the disk drive unit can be inserted, and the carrier is adapted to be inserted with the disk drive unit into a receiving frame for operational use. At lease two resilient devices are mounted on the carrier for securing the disk drive unit in the receiving frame when the carrier is inserted into the frame, at least one resilient device being mounted on each side of the carrier. Each resilient device is movably mounted on the carrier to allow movement of the device as a whole relative to the carrier, and the resilient device is arranged to secure the disk drive unit in the receiving frame by acting between disk drive unit and the receiving frame. A method of handling the disk drive unit comprises placing the disk drive unit into the carrier engaging a robotic device with a coupling structure projecting from the front of the carrier. The method then includes lifting the carrier by the robotic device and inserting the carrier into a receiving frame by a substantially horizontal movement.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mounting for a disk drive unit, the mounting comprising: a carrier for carrying a disk drive unit during required movement of said disk drive unit, the carrier defining a space into which said disk drive unit can be inserted and the carrier being adapted to be inserted with said disk drive unit into a receiving frame for operational use; at least one retaining device mounted on the carrier for securing said disk drive unit in the carrier, in which the or each retaining device is pivotally mounted on the carrier and is arranged to provide vertical positioning control of said disk drive unit in the carrier, in which the or each retaining device comprises an engaging member to engage with a corresponding engaging member on the disk drive unit when the disk drive unit is arranged within the carrier; in which the at least one retaining device being configured such that upon insertion of a disk drive into the carrier, the at least one retaining device automatically engages with said disk drive to apply a clamping force to the disk drive to secure the disk drive in the carrier, the at least one retaining device being further arranged to increase the clamping force on said disk drive when the carrier is inserted into the receiving frame; in which the at least one retaining device comprises a first end at which the engaging member is arranged and a second distal end, a pivot being provided between the first and second end. 2. A mounting according to claim 1, wherein the at least one retaining device comprises an engaging member to engage with a corresponding engaging member on the disk drive unit when the disk drive unit is arranged within the carrier. 3. A mounting according to claim 2, wherein the engaging member on the at least one retaining device comprises a projection adapted to be received in a corresponding recess in said disk drive unit. 4. A mounting according to claim 2, wherein the at least one retaining device is pivotally connected to the carrier in such a manner that in a rest position the engaging member is biased into the carrier. 5. A mounting according to claim 2, wherein the or each retaining device comprises a spring member to bias the engaging member into the carrier. 6. A mounting according to claim 1, further comprising shock mounts, the shock mounts being provided on a base of the carrier to receive the disk drive unit. 7. A mounting according to claim 6, wherein the shock mounts comprise spigots arranged on a base of shock absorbing material. 8. A mounting according to claim 1, further comprising a disk drive unit therein. 9. A mounting according to claim 1, wherein an axis of rotation of the pivotally mounted retaining device is substantially perpendicular to a plane of a bottom of the space into which said disk drive unit is inserted. 10. A mounting according to claim 1, in which there are provided four retaining devices. 11. A retaining device for retaining a disk drive unit in a mounting device according to claim 1, the retaining device comprising: a connection point for pivotal connection to the mounting device and a spring member to bias the retaining device into the carrier of the mounting device when in rest position. 12. A retaining device for retaining a disk drive unit in a mounting device according to claim 1, the retaining device comprising: a connection point for pivotal connection to the mounting device and a spring member to bias the retaining device into the carrier of the mounting device when in rest position, comprising a first end having an engagement member and a distal end, the connection point being provided between the first end and distal end. 13. A retaining device according to claim 12, comprising a damper provided on an external face of the first end. 14. A mounting for a disk drive unit, the mounting comprising: a carrier for carrying a disk drive unit during required movement of said disk drive unit, the carrier defining a space into which said disk drive unit can be inserted; and, at least one retaining device mounted on the carrier for securing said disk drive unit in the carrier, in which the or each retaining device is pivotally mounted on the carrier and is arranged to provide vertical positioning control of said disk drive unit in the carrier; in which the retaining device comprises an engaging member to engage with a corresponding engaging member on disk drive unit when the disk drive unit is arranged within the carrier; in which the carrier is adapted to be inserted with the disk drive unit into a receiving frame for operational use and the at least one retaining device comprises a first end at which the engaging member is arranged and a second distal end, a pivot being provided between the first and second end, wherein at the first end on an external face of the retaining device a damper is provided. 15. A mounting according to claim 14, wherein the damper comprises a damping material selected from the group consisting of sorbathane and silicone-free gel. 16. A method of loading a disk drive unit into a mounting having a carrier for a disk drive unit and comprising at least one retaining device mounted on the carrier for securing said disk drive unit in the carrier, in which the or each retaining device is pivotally mounted on the carrier and is provided with an engaging member to engage said disk drive and arranged to provide vertical positioning control of said disk drive unit in the carrier, in which the or each retaining device comprising a first end at which the engaging member is arranged and a second distal end, a pivot is provided between the first and the second end, the method comprising: inserting said disk drive unit into the carrier such that upon insertion of the disk drive, the or each retaining member automatically acts on said disk drive unit to apply a clamping force to maintain said disk drive unit in the carrier; and inserting the carrier into a receiving frame such that the clamping force on said disk drive is increased. 17. A method according to claim 16, comprising: acting on the or each retaining member in such a manner to cause the or each engaging member to move out of the carrier; inserting said disk drive unit into the carrier when the or each retaining member is in this outer position; and, releasing the or each retaining member to grip said disk drive unit in position in the carrier. 