A method and system are provided to support simultaneous operation of a weapon and communication with a remote apparatus. The system utilizes a control module with a transceiver in communication with a receiver of a remote apparatus and/or output device.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: a control module operable to generate at least one signal for transmission to a processing unit local to a mobile remote apparatus while operating a weapon, the module being mountable on the weapon, the module comprising: a housing configured as a vertical hand grip for the weapon, the housing having at least one input sensor connected to a processing unit local to the control module to sense presence of one or more fingers; an electronic communication circuit mounted within the housing; an input device coupled to an electronic input circuit connected to the processing unit local to the control unit and mounted on the housing such that the operator of the module can simultaneously operate the weapon and provide input to the processing unit; and a transceiver in communication with said processing unit to receive data generated from said input device and transmit data to the remote apparatus, said received and transmitted data conveying tactile information to an output device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a first bi-lateral communication channel operable to transmit a first signal from said control module to a said processing unit local to the remote apparatus, and to transmit a second signal from said processing unit local to the remote apparatus. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a second communication channel independent from said first communication channel and operable to communicate data received from said processing unit, local to said remote apparatus, to said output device. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said housing is removable from said weapon while remaining operable and in communication with said processing unit local to the remote apparatus and said output device. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said first and second communication channels are wireless. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a visual output mounted separate from said housing and moveable from a stored position to a view position, said visual output operable to display data received from a first communication channel. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a strain gauge mounted in said module to provide proportional input data to the processing unit local to the control unit. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said proportional input data detects firing of said weapon and translates said firing to said processing unit local to the control unit. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one of the input sensors being a capacitive sensor in communication with said housing to control delivery of a transmission signal to said processing unit when force applied to said housing exceeds a minimum threshold. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a button recessed in said housing to allow use of said housing as a handgrip for said weapon with reduced usability interference. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a tactile mode selector mounted to said housing to allow selection of different control modes of said processing unit. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, said tactile information is in the form of vibration of the housing. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a combination of at least two input sensors actuated to activate the control module. 14. A communication system comprising: a transceiver coupled to a control module mountable to a weapon; said control module communicating with a mobile remote apparatus through said transceiver; a processing unit local to the control module; an input device coupled to said control module, said input device operated by an operator; the input device to sense presence of at least one finger; the control module to support simultaneous operation of said weapon and said processing unit responsive to the sensed presence of the at least one finger; and tactile output in communication with said transceiver to convey control feedback information in response to a signal received from said transceiver. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising said input device to change a mode of operation of one or more sensors. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising a first unilateral communication channel from said control module to a remote apparatus. 17. The system of claim 14, further comprising a second unilateral communication channel from a remote apparatus to said output device. 18. The system of claim 14, further comprising a bi-directional channel between said control module and a remote apparatus. 