Systems, methods and devices for the remote control of a robot which incorporates interchangeable tool heads. Although applicable to many different industries, the core structure of the system includes a robot with a tool head interface for mechanically, electrically and operatively interconnecting a plurality of interchangeable tool heads to perform various work functions. The robot and tool head may include several levels of digital feedback (local, remote and wide area) depending on the application. The systems include a single umbilical cord to send power, air, and communications signals between the robot and a remote computer. Additionally, all communication (including video) is preferably sent in a digital format. Finally, a GUI running on the remote computer automatically queries and identifies all of the various devices on the network and automatically configures its user options to parallel the installed devices. Systems according to the preferred embodiments find particular application in the pipeline arts. For example, interchangeable tool heads may be designed to facilitate inspection, debris clearing, cleaning, relining, lateral cutting after relining, mapping, and various other common pipeline-related tasks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic control system, comprising: a robot that comprises: a chassis; a universal interface positioned within said chassis, wherein said universal interface is: movable relative to said chassis; and configured for removable connection to a plurality of different attachments, the plurality of different attachments comprising: a plurality of different electrically-powered attachments; a plurality of different pneumatically-powered attachments; and a plurality of different hydraulically-powered attachments; a controller in communication with the universal interface, wherein the controller is configured to: automatically identify each attachment when the attachment is connected to the universal interface; and automatically control the functionality of the robot based on the identified attachment; and at least one sensing device connected to the controller; at least one of said plurality of different attachments removably connected to said universal interface; and a computer in communication with said robot, wherein said computer is located remote from said robot. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein said at least one of said plurality of different attachments comprises a tool head. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said tool head comprises a laser. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein said tool head comprises one of the following: a barrel cutting tool; a lateral cutting tool; a rotating rasp tool; a root cutting tool; a pipe cleaning tool; a lateral trimming tool; a high pressure jet tool; a pipe joint sealing tool; a pipe joint testing tool; a pipe profiling tool; a pipe sampling tool; and an internal repair tool. 5. The control system of claim 1, wherein said computer is in wired communication with said robot. 6. The control system of claim 5, further comprising: an umbilical cable interconnecting said computer to said robot such that all resources required to operate said plurality of different attachments exist in said umbilical cable. 7. The control system of claim 6, wherein said umbilical cable includes electrical power lines. 8. The control system of claim 6, wherein said umbilical cable includes pneumatic air lines. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein said umbilical cable comprises an optical fiber. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one sensing device comprises at least one imaging sensor. 11. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a computing device in communication with said computer, wherein said computing device is located remote from said computer. 12. The control system of claim 1, wherein said at least one of said plurality of different attachments comprises a sensor. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one sensing device comprises at least one of the following: an imaging device; a temperature sensor; a PH sensor; a gas composition sensor; a position sensor; a tilt sensor; an incline sensor; a humidity sensor; a pressure sensor; a voltage sensor; a current sensor; a flow sensor; and a payout sensor. 14. The control system of claim 1, wherein said computer is in wireless communication with said robot. 15. The control system of claim 1, further comprising: a software system that automatically enumerates and identifies each sensing device and attachment, and which automatically configures a graphical user interface running on said computer to include a corresponding interface for monitoring each sensing device and attachment and for controlling each attachment. 16. A robot, comprising: a chassis; and a universal interface positioned within the chassis, wherein the universal interface is: movable relative to the chassis; and configured for removable connection to a plurality of different attachments, the plurality of different attachments comprising: a plurality of different electrically-powered attachments; a plurality of different pneumatically-powered attachments; and a plurality of different hydraulically-powered attachments. 17. The robot of claim 16, wherein the universal interface has at least two degrees of freedom relative to the to the chassis. 18. The robot of claim 16, wherein the universal interface has three degrees of freedom relative to the to the chassis. 19. The robot of claim 16, wherein the universal interface comprises a power take off. 20. The robot of claim 16, further comprising one of the plurality of different attachments removably connected to the universal interface. 21. The robot of claim 20, wherein the one of the plurality of different attachments has at least one degree of freedom relative to the universal interface. 22. The robot of claim 20, wherein the one of the plurality of different attachments comprises one of the following: a tool; and a sensor. 23. The robot of claim 22, wherein the tool comprises one of the following: a barrel cutting tool; a lateral cutting tool; a rotating rasp tool; a root cutting tool; a pipe cleaning tool; a lateral trimming tool; a high pressure jet tool; a pipe joint sealing tool; a pipe joint testing tool; a pipe profiling tool; a pipe sampling tool; and an internal repair tool. 24. The robot of claim 16, further comprising a mobility device connected to the universal interface. 25. The robot of claim 24, further comprising a controller connected to the mobility device. 26. The robot of claim 25, further comprising at least one sensing device connected to the controller. 27. The robot of claim 16, further comprising an anchoring member connected to the chassis. 