Devices, systems, and methods for compensate for friction within powered automatic systems, particularly for telesurgery and other telepresence applications. Dynamic friction compensation may comprise applying a continuous load in the direction of movement of a joint, and static friction compensation may comprise applying alternating loads in positive and negative joint actuation directions whenever the joint velocity reading falls within a low velocity range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for friction compensation of a movable mechanical part in a medical robotic system, comprising: determining a velocity reading for the movable mechanical part; and applying an alternating direction, friction compensation load on the movable mechanical part when the velocity reading is within a first reading range. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising applying a continuous friction compensation load on the movable mechanical part when the velocity is within a second reading range. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the continuous load applying step is applied in a first direction so as to compensate for dynamic friction of the movable mechanical part when the part moves in the first direction, and is applied in a second direction so as to compensate for dynamic friction of the movable mechanical part when the part moves in the second direction. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising compensating for gravity by varying the continuous load when an orientation of the movable mechanical part changes. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the application of the alternating direction, friction compensation load is performed so that a first load applied in a first direction compensates for static friction of the movable mechanical part in the first direction and a second load applied in a second direction compensates for static friction of the movable mechanical part in the second direction. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the alternating direction, friction compensation load is an oscillating load, and further comprising varying a duty cycle of the oscillating load in response to the velocity reading within the first range. 7. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the load applying steps are performed by energizing an actuator drivingly engaging the movable mechanical part. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the alternating direction, friction compensation load is less than a static friction of the movable mechanical part so that the part remains substantially stationary until an externally applied force sufficient to move the movable mechanical part is applied. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the movable mechanical part is a joint. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the joint is included in an input device manipulatable by a surgeon to move an end effector of a surgical tool of the medical robotic system during a surgical procedure. 