An apparatus and a method for robotic control that allows an unbalanced pendulum robot to raise its Center of Mass and balance on two motorized wheels. The robot includes a pair of arms that are connected to the upper body of the robot through motorized joints. The method consists of a series of movements employing the arms of the robot to raise the robot to the upright position. The method comprises a control loop in which the motorized drives are included for dynamic balance of the robot and the control of the arm apparatus. The robot is first configured as a low Center of Mass four-wheeled vehicle, then its Center of Mass is raised using a combination of its wheels and the joint located at the attachment point of the arm apparatus and the robot body, between the rear and front wheels; the method then applies accelerations to the rear wheels to dynamically pivot and further raise the Center of Mass up and over the main drive wheels bringing the robot into a balancing pendulum configuration.
Claims Having described our invention, we claim: 1. A reconfigurable robot capable of traveling across the ground comprising: a. a base, having a first end, a second end, and a rear ground contact attached proximal said first end of said base, said rear ground contact including a propulsion element for moving said robot along said ground, said propulsion element including a first rear wheel and a second rear wheel; b. an arm, having a first end, a second end, and a front ground contact attached proximal said second end of said arm; c. a joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base, said joint configured to allow said arm to rotate with respect to said base; d. wherein said reconfigurable robot is capable of changing its configuration between a transit configuration wherein said reconfigurable robot travels across said ground with said rear ground contact and said front ground contact touching the ground and a balanced configuration wherein said reconfigurable robot travels across said ground with said rear ground contact touching said ground and said front ground contact held elevated above said ground; e. a control system, said control system having a transitioning control module configured to provide power inputs to said propulsion element in order to transition said reconfigurable robot from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration; f. wherein said control system is configured to transition said reconfigurable robot from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration by i. applying power to said propulsion element to propel said robot backward; and ii. after propelling said robot backward, applying power to said propulsion element to accelerate said robot forward and cause said front ground contact to lift off of said ground, thereby allowing said robot to pivot about said propulsion element. 2. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, further comprising a turret attached proximate said joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base. 3. The reconfigurable robot of claim 2, further comprising a weapon system attached to said turret. 4. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, wherein said propulsion element is powered by a first electric motor. 5. The reconfigurable robot of claim 4, wherein said front ground contact is configured to provide propulsion along the ground and is powered by a second electric motor. 6. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, wherein said joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base is articulated by a motor. 7. The reconfigurable robot of claim 6, wherein said robot is configured such that during transition from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration, power is applied to said motor to articulate said joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base so that said robot attains an intermediate configuration, wherein said front ground contact and said rear ground contact are both contacting said ground and the center of mass of said robot is at a higher elevation from said ground than when said robot is in said transit configuration. 8. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, wherein said first rear wheel and said second rear wheel are configured to be differentially powered, thereby allowing said reconfigurable robot to turn when in said balanced configuration. 9. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, further comprising an inertial measurement unit attached to said base, said inertial measurement unit configured to detect changes in the pitch angle of said base with respect to said ground. 10. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, wherein said robot is configured such that during transition from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration, said robot intermediately attains an intermediate configuration, wherein when said robot is in said intermediate configuration, said front ground contact and said rear ground contact are both contacting said ground and the center of mass of said robot is at a higher elevation from said ground than when said robot is in said transit configuration. 11. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, wherein said control system includes a balancing control module configured to provide power inputs to said propulsion element to hold said reconfigurable robot in a state of balance as an inverted pendulum and maintain said reconfigurable robot in said balanced position. 12. The reconfigurable robot of claim 1, further comprising motorized tracks attached between said first end and said second end of said base. 13. A reconfigurable robot capable of traveling across the ground comprising: a. a base, having a first end, a second end, and a rear ground contact attached proximal said first end of said base, said rear ground contact including a propulsion element for moving said robot along said ground, said propulsion element including a first rear wheel and a second rear wheel; b. an arm, having a first end, a second end, and a front ground contact attached proximal said second end of said arm; c. wherein said reconfigurable robot is capable of changing its configuration between a transit configuration wherein said reconfigurable robot travels across said ground with said rear ground contact and said front ground contact touching said ground and a balanced configuration wherein said reconfigurable robot travels across said ground with said rear ground contact touching said ground and said front ground contact held elevated above said ground; d. wherein during transitioning between said transit configuration and said balanced configuration, said robot passes through an intermediate phase in which the projection of the Center of Mass of said robot on said ground lies outside the support polygon defined by the convex hull of the points of contact between said robot and said ground; and e. wherein during transition between said transit configuration and said balanced configuration power is applied to said propulsion element to propel said robot backward and power is then applied to said propulsion element to accelerate said robot forward and cause said front contact to lift off of said ground, thereby allowing said robot to pivot about said propulsion element. 14. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, further comprising a joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base, said joint configured to allow said arm to rotate with respect to said base. 15. The reconfigurable robot of claim 14, wherein during transition from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration, power is applied to said motor connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base to rotate said joint so that said robot attains a second intermediate configuration, wherein when said robot is in said second intermediate configuration, said front ground contact and said rear ground contact are both contacting said ground and the center of mass of said robot is at a higher elevation from said ground than when said robot is in said transit configuration. 16. The reconfigurable robot of claim 14, wherein said joint connecting said first end of said arm to said second end of said base is powered by a motor. 17. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, further comprising a turret attached to said base. 18. The reconfigurable robot of claim 17, further comprising a weapon system attached to said turret. 19. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, wherein said propulsion element is powered by a first electric motor. 20. The reconfigurable robot of claim 19, wherein said front ground contact includes a second propulsion element which is powered by a second electric motor. 21. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, further comprising a control system, said control system having a transitioning control module configured to provide power inputs to said propulsion element in order to transition said reconfigurable robot from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration. 22. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, wherein said first rear wheel and said second rear wheel are configured to be differentially powered, thereby allowing said reconfigurable robot to turn when in said balanced configuration. 23. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, further comprising a control system, said control system having a balancing control module configured to provide power inputs to said propulsion element to hold said reconfigurable robot in a state of balance as an inverted pendulum and maintain said reconfigurable robot in said balanced position. 24. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, further comprising motorized tracks attached between said first end and said second end of said base. 25. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, further comprising an inertial measurement unit attached to said base, said inertial measurement unit configured to detect changes in the pitch angle of said base with respect to said ground. 26. The reconfigurable robot of claim 13, wherein during transition from said transit configuration to said balanced configuration, said robot intermediately attains a second intermediate configuration, wherein when said robot is in said second intermediate configuration, said front ground contact and said rear ground contact are both contacting said ground and the center of mass of said robot is at a higher elevation from said ground than when said robot is in said transit configuration. 