Surgical robots and other telepresence systems have enhanced grip actuation for manipulating tissues and objects with small sizes. A master/slave system is used in which an error signal or gain is artificially altered when grip members are near a closed configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a medical robotic system, a handle coupled to first and second end effector elements through a processor so as to manipulate a separation between the first and second end effector elements through operator manipulation of the handle, the handle comprising: first and second grip elements coupled together at conjoining ends of the first and second grip elements and defining a separation between free ends of the first and second grip elements; and at least one spring coupled to at least one of the first and second grip elements, wherein the at least one spring exhibits a first spring constant while the separation exceeds a separation transition point that corresponds to the free end of the first end effector element making contact with the free end of the second end effector element and exhibits a second spring constant greater than the first spring constant when the separation is less than the separation transition point. 2. The handle according to claim 1, wherein the at least one spring comprises: first and second springs, wherein the first and second springs are configured so that the first spring is compressible throughout a full range of the separation and the second spring is compressible while the separation is less than the separation transition point. 3. The handle according to claim 2, wherein the first and second springs have different coil diameters so that one of the first and second springs is disposed within the coil of the other of the first and second springs. 4. The handle according to claim 3, wherein one end of the first spring is coupled to the first grip element and the other end of the first spring is coupled to the second grip element, and one end of the second spring is left free and the other end of the second spring is coupled to the second grip element so that the second spring is not compressed until after the first spring has been compressed to a point where the free end of the second spring makes contact with the first grip element. 5. The handle according to claim 1, wherein the at least one spring comprises: a variable rate spring having first and second sections, wherein the first section has a first coil spacing and the second section has a second coil spacing that is larger than the first coil spacing. 6. The handle according to claim 5, wherein the first section is no longer compressible at the separation transition point and the second section is compressible at the separation transition point. 7. The handle according to claim 6, wherein the first section comprises a plurality of sections and the second section is coupled to and disposed between two of the plurality of sections. 8. The handle according to claim 1, wherein the second grip element has a stop and the at least one spring comprises: a variable rate spring having first and second sections, wherein the first section has a first coil diameter smaller than a diameter of the stop and the second section has a second coil diameter that is larger than the diameter of the stop so that the first section compresses against the stop when the stop is disposed within the second section and the variable rate spring is compressed to at least the separation transition point. 