A portable orthovoltage radiotherapy system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, the ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the ocular structures inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the ocular structures within the coordinate system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, of applying radiation to a patient's eye, comprising: obtaining imaging data of at least a portion of the eye; identifying, based on the imaging data, a location of the macula of the eye; identifying a first location of a fiducial marker located in or on the eye; mapping a location of the macula, relative to the first location of the fiducial marker, in a coordinate system, thereby producing a mapped macula location in the coordinate system; positioning, based on the mapped macula location, a radiation source that applies radiation to the macula; emitting the radiation from the positioned radiation source to the macula; and positioning a contact lens, that contacts the sclera of the eye and that comprises the fiducial marker, on the eye. 2. A method, of applying radiation to a patient's eye, comprising: obtaining imaging data of at least a portion of the eye; identifying, based on the imaging data, a location of the macula of the eye; identifying a first location of a fiducial marker located in or on the eye; mapping a location of the macula, relative to the first location of the fiducial marker, in a coordinate system, thereby producing a mapped macula location in the coordinate system; positioning, based on the mapped macula location, a radiation source that applies radiation to the macula; emitting the radiation from the positioned radiation source to the macula; and positioning a contact lens, that contacts the cornea of the eye and that comprises the fiducial marker, on the eye. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising collimating the emitted radiation to a radiation beam having a cross-sectional width of less than about 6 mm. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising repositioning the radiation source based on a movement of the fiducial marker to a second location of the fiducial marker. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, after mapping the location of the macula, detecting a movement of the eye. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining a relative relationship between a new location of the macula and the mapped macula location in the coordinate system after the detecting of the eye movement. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising emitting the radiation toward a region of drusen in the eye. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the emitting the radiation comprises emitting an x-ray beam. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising applying at least one additional radiation beam to the macula. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the x-ray beam and the at least one additional radiation beam are applied simultaneously. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging data is obtained with at least one of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, optical coherence tomography, and positron emission tomography. 12. The method of claim 2, further comprising collimating the emitted radiation to a radiation beam having a cross-sectional width of less than about 6 mm. 13. The method of claim 2, further comprising repositioning the radiation source based on a movement of the fiducial marker to a second location of the fiducial marker. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising, after the repositioning of the radiation source, emitting an additional radiation beam from the radiation source to the macula. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising, after the repositioning of the radiation source, emitting an additional radiation beam from the radiation source to the macula. 16. The method of claim 2, further comprising, after mapping the location of the macula, detecting a movement of the eye. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining a relative relationship between a new location of the macula and the mapped macula location in the coordinate system after the detecting of the eye movement. 18. The method of claim 2, further comprising emitting the radiation toward a region of drusen in the eye. 19. The method of claim 2, wherein the emitting the radiation comprises emitting an x-ray beam. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising applying at least one additional radiation beam to the macula. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the x-ray beam and the at least one additional radiation beam are applied simultaneously. 22. The method of claim 2, wherein the imaging data is obtained with at least one of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, optical coherence tomography, and positron emission tomography. 