A sensor including at least one sensor probe including a pair of electrodes; a vertically aligned nanotube disposed between the pair of electrodes; optionally a piezoelectric polymer on the nanotube; and optionally, a field source for generating a field, the field source operatively connected to the pair of electrodes; whereby when the sensor probe is contacted, a change in the field occurs or electricity is generated. Methods of using the sensors are also described.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A sensor comprising: at least one sensor probe comprising: a pair of electrodes; a vertically aligned nanotube disposed between the pair of electrodes, the nanotube having a first end and a second end, one of the pair of electrodes at the first end of the nanotube and the other electrode at the second end; a piezoelectric polymer on the nanotube; and a field source for generating a field, the field source operatively connected to the pair of electrodes; whereby when the sensor probe is touched, a change in the field occurs or electricity is generated. 2. The sensor of claim 1 further comprising a detector operatively connected to the at least one sensor probe, the detector detecting the change in the field or the electricity. 3. The sensor of claim 2 wherein the detector is selected from voltage detectors, current detectors, light detectors, or combinations thereof. 4. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanotube is selected from straight nanotubes, helical nanotubes, or combinations thereof. 5. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanotube is selected from individual nanotubes, bundled nanotubes, or combinations thereof. 6. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanotube is selected from carbon nanotubes, metal nanotubes, metal oxide nanotubes, metal carbide nanotubes, metal nitride nanotubes, metal boride nanotubes, ceramic nanotubes, polymer nanotubes, or silicon nanotubes, or combinations thereof. 7. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the piezoelectric polymer is selected from polyvinylidene fluoride, or combinations thereof. 8. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the field source is a voltage source. 9. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the sensor is a touch sensor, wherein the nanotube is a helical nanotube, and wherein the field source is a voltage source electrically connected to the electrodes, whereby when the sensor probe is touched, a change in the electric field occurs. 10. A method of detecting touch comprising: providing a sensor comprising: at least one sensor probe comprising: a pair of electrodes; a vertically aligned nanotube disposed between the pair of electrodes, the nanotube having a first end and a second end, one of the pair of electrodes at the first end of the nanotube and the other electrode at the second end; a piezoelectric polymer on the nanotube; and a field source for generating a field, the field source operatively connected to the pair of electrodes; whereby when the sensor probe is touched, a change in the field occurs or electricity is generated; and detecting a change in the field or the electricity generation caused by a touch. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the sensor is a touch sensor, wherein the nanotube is a helical nanotube, and wherein the field source is a voltage source electrically connected to the electrodes, whereby when the sensor probe is touched, a change in the electric field occurs. 