A method is provided for performing total knee arthroplasty. The method includes making a primary incision near the knee joint of a leg of a patient and cutting medial and lateral condyles of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface. The method also includes moving a femoral component of a total knee implant through the primary incision and positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface. The primary incision has a length of less than thirteen (13) centimeters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing total knee arthroplasty through a primary incision having a length of less than thirteen (13) centimeters, comprising: making a primary incision of less than thirteen (13) centimeters near the knee joint of a leg of a patient; cutting medial and lateral condyles, and the trochlear groove of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface; moving a femoral component of a total knee implant operative to replace at least the entire articulating surface of at least one of the medial condyle, lateral condyle, or the trochlear groove, through the primary incision; moving remaining femoral components through the primary incision; and positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the primary incision is located on a side surface of the knee joint, the side surface being one of medial and lateral relative to the centerline of the patient. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising cutting a tibia of the leg to create at least one tibial cut surface, moving a tibial component of the total knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the tibial component with respect to the at least one tibial cut surface. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising displacing the patella of the leg to an offset position without everting the patella so that the inner side of the patella remains in a position facing the femur. 5. The method according to claim 4, further comprising cutting a portion of the patella to create a patellar cut surface, moving a patellar component of the total knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the patellar component with respect to the patellar cut surface. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the primary incision is made when the knee joint of the leg is flexed. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended relative to an upper portion of the leg. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the upper portion of the leg is supported by a leg support. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising moving a guide member through the primary incision and positioning the guide member against the femur, the guide member having a guide surface. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein cutting the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove of the femur includes positioning a cutting tool in association with the guide surface of the guide member to form the at least one femoral cut surface. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising removing the guide member from the femur. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising continuing the cut of the medial and lateral condyles of the femur while guiding the cutting tool along the at least one femoral cut surface. 13. The method according to claim 9, wherein the guide member has opposite ends with a transverse dimension which is less than a distance between medial and lateral condyles of the femur. 14. The method according to claim 9, wherein the guide member has ends which are spaced apart by a distance less than two thirds of a distance between the medial and lateral condyles of the femur. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than ten (10) centimeters. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the length of the primary incision is about seven (7) centimeters. 17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising making a secondary incision near the knee joint of the leg, the secondary incision having a length less than the length of the primary incision. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising moving at least a portion of a cutting tool through the secondary incision and wherein cutting the medial and lateral condyles of the femur is performed with the cutting tool. 19. The method according to claim 17, further comprising moving an imaging device through the secondary incision. 20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the imaging device is an endoscope. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein the femoral component comprises a plurality of portions passable through the primary incision and assembleable within the body, each portion sized substantially smaller than the assembled femoral component. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein in said moving step, a femoral component of a total knee implant operative to replace the articulating surfaces of both condyles and the trochlear groove is moved through the primary incision. 23. A method of performing total knee arthroplasty through a primary incision having a length of less than thirteen (13) centimeters, comprising the steps of: making a primary incision of less than thirteen (13) centimeters near the knee joint of a leg of a patient, and carrying out the further steps, through the primary incision, of cutting medial and lateral condyles, and the trochlear groove of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface; moving a single femoral component of a total knee implant operative to replace the entire articulating surfaces of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove, through the primary incision; and positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface. 24. A method of performing total knee arthroplasty on a patient through a primary incision, comprising: making a primary incision sized not larger than approximately twice the length of the patient's patella; cutting medial and lateral condyles, and the trochlear groove of the femur of the leg of the patient to create at least one femoral cut surface; stretching the primary incision to create an opening sufficiently wide for passing at least one component of a total knee arthroplasty into the body, the at least one component operative to replace at least the entire articulating surface of at least one of the medial condyle, lateral condyle, or the trochlear groove; passing at least one femoral component, including the at least one component of a total knee implant, and such other femoral components as are required to replace the articulating surfaces of both condyles and the trochlear groove, through the primary incision; positioning the at least one passed femoral components with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the primary incision is not longer than a distance between the proximal end of the tibia and the epicondylar notch. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the primary incision is sized smaller than the smallest implant portion. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the primary incision has a configuration corresponding to the lateral or medial edge of the patella. 28. The method of claim 24, wherein the primary incision is stretched with at least one mechanical or pneumatic retractor. 29. The method of claim 24, wherein the retractor is a balloon which is expanded to increase a width of the primary incision. 30. The method of claim 24, wherein the retractor is formed with a malleable polymeric material, whereupon the shape of the retractor may be changed. 31. The method of claim 24, wherein the skin proximate the primary incision is moved to facilitate moving femoral components through the primary incision. 32. The method of claim 24, wherein the patella is moved medially or laterally, maintaining the inner side surface of the patella in a normal, non-everted orientation, facing the femur. 