The present invention provides a random access and random load dispensing unit including a housing, at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis, a plurality of platforms movable along the support along the first axis, a plurality of bins supported on the platforms, the bins being movable with the platforms, and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis between the plurality of platforms to access and retrieve products stored in the bins.
Claims for U.S. Appl. No. 11/688,183, filed Mar. 19, 2007 (13 pgs.). cited by other . Extended European Search Report for EP Application No. 05825427.7. cited by other. Primary Examiner: Crawford; Gene Assistant Examiner: Collins; Michael K Attorney, Agent or Firm: Foley & Lardner LLP Moore; Steven A. Kjelland; Kurt M. Parent Case Text RELATED APPLICATIONS This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/001,110 filed on Nov. 30, 2004 now abandoned which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/880,269, filed on Jun. 29, 2004, now abandoned which claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60/484,544 filed on Jul. 1, 2003 and 60/576,005 filed on Jun. 1, 2004, which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/801,321, filed on Mar. 16, 2004, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,123,989 which claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/484,544 filed on Jul. 1, 2003. The entire disclosures of these applications are considered as being part of the accompanying application, which are incorporated by reference herein. Claims We claim: 1. A method of conducting a sales transaction for consumer-specific prescription medications using an automated dispensing device comprising: (a) providing an automated dispensing device comprising (i) a housing for securely enclosing a plurality of storage locations for storing prescription medications that have been filled for specific consumers before being placed within the dispensing device, (ii) a payment receiving terminal, (iii) a user interface, (iv) an interface engine for communicating with a pharmacy information system and a point-of-sale system; (b) associating a prescription medication, which has been filled for a specific consumer, and an information record, wherein said information record comprises a consumer name, a prescription information element, and a medication information element, and is electronically stored in the pharmacy information system; (c) receiving consumer-specific prescription medication at a storage location, which is not predesignated prior to receipt; (d) associating non-predesignated storage location with consumer-specific prescription medication after consumer-specific prescription medication has been received at said non-predesignated storage location; (e) providing the interface engine to allow the automated dispensing device to communicate with the pharmacy information system; (f) transferring the information record from the pharmacy information system to the automated dispensing device for consumer-specific prescription medication; (g) receiving a consumer identification information at the user interface; (h) displaying a list of one or more consumer-specific prescription medications previously stored for the consumer whose identification information was received (i) receiving a communication that requests delivery of one or more listed, consumer-specific prescription medications; (j) determining the storage location where a first listed, consumer-specific prescription medication is stored; (k) receiving any required payment at the payment receiving terminal; (l) transmitting purchase information from the automated dispensing device via the interface engine to a remote point-of-sale system to document the sales transaction for the first, listed consumer-specific prescription medication; and (m) delivering said first, listed, consumer-specific prescription medication. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the medication information element further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a prescription number, a physician name, a physician contact information, a drug name, a drug code, a tax information, a brand name, a retail price and a generic name. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the prescription information element further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a copay information, and a co-pay amount. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a consumer birth date, a consumer phone number, a consumer home phone number, a consumer fax number, a consumer mobile phone number, a consumer pager number, a consumer insurance information, a Medicaid information, a non-child resistant packaging information, and a consumer email address. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a alternate person for prescription pickup, and a retail price. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the information record further comprises a refill number. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the consumer-specific prescription medication is placed into a container, prior to storing it in the dispensing device. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the container is a bag. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising placing a first barcode on the container. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising scanning a second barcode that corresponds to the record, and scanning the first barcode, in order to associate the container, the first barcode, and the record. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the dispensing device further comprises an internal barcode reader, and the barcode reader is used in the association of the storage location and the consumer-specific prescription medication by reading the first barcode. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein over the counter items are stored within the dispensing device, and available for purchase by the consumer. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating steps (i) (j), (k), (l), and (m) for each consumer-specific prescription medication displayed in step (h). 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a communication that requests delivery of all listed consumer-specific prescription medications, and requesting a single payment representing the sum of all payments required for all listed consumer-specific prescription medications. 15. The method of claim 2, wherein the prescription information element comprises a prescription number. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the medication information element comprises a retail price. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the prescription information element further comprises a co-pay amount. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the prescription information element further comprises a drug name. 19. The method of claim 13, further comprising associating the information record and a sensable identifier. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising associating the sensable identifier and the customer-specific prescription medication. 21. The method of claim 9, wherein the sensable identifier is a barcode. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the automated dispensing device has at least 100 storage locations. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the automated dispensing device has at least 500 storage locations. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising comparing the consumer identification information with a list of consumers previously registered to receive consumer-specific prescription medications stored in the automated dispensing device. 25. The method of claim 21, further comprising the receipt of a consumer signature, which is electronically recorded. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein the consumer retrieves a consumer-specific prescription medication which has been filled for a family member. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein the automated dispensing device queries the pharmacy information system for an updated information record approximately immediately before dispensing the list of one or more consumer-specific prescription medications. 28. The method of claim 21, wherein the consumer-specific prescription medication is a refill. 29. A method of conducting a sales transaction for prescription medications using an automated prescription storage and dispensing device comprising: (a) providing an automated storage and dispensing device comprising: (i) a housing for securely enclosing a plurality of storage locations for storing prescription medications that have been filled for specific consumers before being placed within the automatic storage and dispensing device; (ii) a payment receiving terminal; and (iii) a user interface; (b) receiving at a storage location a prescription medication that has been filled for a specific consumer, and which has been associated with an information record comprising a consumer name, a prescription information element, and a medication information element; (c) associating said storage location with consumer-specific prescription medication; (d) receiving a consumer-identification information at the user interface; (e) displaying a list of one or more consumer-specific prescription medications previously stored for the consumer whose identification information was received; (f) receiving a communication requesting retrieval of one or more listed, consumer-specific prescription medications; (g) determining the storage location of a first listed, consumer-specific prescription medication; (h) receiving any required payment at the payment receiving terminal; (i) wherein the automatic dispensing device verifies that the consumer-specific prescription medication is the listed consumer-specific prescription medication requested for retrieval and delivers the verified consumer-specific prescription medication. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the consumer-specific prescription medication is received at a non-predesignated storage location, and said associating occurs after said consumer-specific prescription medication has been received at said non-predesignated storage location. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising repeating steps (f) (g), (h), and (i), for each consumer-specific prescription medication displayed in step (h). 32. The method of claim 30, further comprising receiving a communication that requests delivery of all listed consumer-specific prescription medications, and requesting a single payment representing the sum of all payments required for all listed consumer-specific prescription medications. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein the prescription information element comprises a prescription number. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the medication information element comprises a retail price. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the prescription information element further comprises a co-pay amount. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the prescription information element further comprises a drug name. 37. The method of claim 33, further comprising associating the information record and an electronic identifier. 38. The method of claim 37, further comprising associating a sensable identifier and the customer-specific prescription medication. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the sensable identifier is a barcode. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the automated dispensing device has at least 100 storage locations. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the automated dispensing device has at least 500 storage locations. 42. The method of claim 39, further comprising comparing the consumer identification information with a list of consumers previously registered to receive consumer-specific prescription medications stored in the automated dispensing device. 43. The method of claim 39, further comprising the receipt of a consumer signature, which is electronically recorded. 44. The method of claim 39, wherein the consumer retrieves a consumer-specific prescription medication which has been filled for a family member. 45. The method of claim 39, wherein the automated dispensing device queries the pharmacy information system for an updated information record approximately immediately before dispensing the list of one or more consumer-specific prescription medications. 46. The method of claim 39, wherein the consumer-specific prescription medication is a refill. 