Various embodiments provide keyboards that utilize electrically-deformable material as an actuating mechanism to provide haptic feedback to a user of the keyboard. In at least some embodiments, the electrically-deformable material is utilized to impart, to a depressed key or keyboard element, a multi-vectored movement that produces a perceived acceleration of the key or keyboard element thus providing a user with haptic feedback which simulates a snapover movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: detecting a switch closure associated with a user touching a key or keyboard element on a keyboard having a plurality of keys or keyboard elements; responsive to said switch closure, applying one or more drive voltages to an electrically-deformable material connected to the key or keyboard element sufficient to provide multi-vectored movement to the key or keyboard element, wherein said movement, being generally orthogonal to a direction effective to cause switch closure, moves the key or keyboard element in a first direction and at least a second different direction, wherein one of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element a distance that is greater than a distance the other of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each direction of movement is caused by a different drive voltage. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein at least some individual drive voltages are applied to different areas of the electrically-deformable material. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second direction is generally opposite of the first direction. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first direction is generally toward the user. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second direction is generally away from the user. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the first direction moves the key or keyboard element a distance that is less than a distance the second direction moves the key or keyboard element. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the first direction moves the key or keyboard element a distance that is about half the distance that the second direction moves the key or keyboard element. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of keys of the keyboard are grouped into a logical grouping, and wherein the multi-vectored movement is applied to the logical grouping of keys. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrically deformable material comprises an electroactive polymer (EAP). 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said multi-vector movement is achieved, at least in part, through the use of a magnetic assembly at least a portion of which is connected to the key or keyboard element. 12. A system comprising: a keyboard having a plurality of keys or keyboard elements; a frame associated with one or more keys or keyboard elements; an electrically-deformable material connected to the frame; an actuator connected between the electrically-deformable material and one or more keys or keyboard elements; one or more electrical contacts associated with the electrically-deformable material; and drive electronics associated with the one or more electrical contacts and configured to, upon depression of the key or keyboard element, apply a single or plurality of drive voltages to the electrically-deformable material sufficient to provide multi-vectored movement to the key or keyboard element, wherein said movements being generally orthogonal to a direction of the depression of the key or keyboard element, moves the key or keyboard element in a first direction and at least a second different direction, wherein one of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element a distance that is greater than a distance the other of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein each direction of movement is caused by a different drive voltage. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein at least some individual drive voltages are applied to different areas of the electrically-deformable material. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein the electrically-deformable material comprises an electroactive polymer (EAP). 16. The system of claim 12 further comprising one or more light sources associated with the keyboard and configured to backlight keys or keyboard elements. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein the second direction is generally opposite of the first direction. 18. A keyboard comprising: multiple keys supported by a housing; a switch associated with one or more of the multiple keys; an electroactive polymer actuator operably coupled with the switch and said one or more of the multiple keys, wherein the electroactive polymer is configured, in an event of a switch closure, to be driven by one or more drive voltages effective to move said one or more of the multiple keys in a first direction and at least a second different direction generally orthogonal to a direction effective to cause switch closure, wherein one of the first or second directions moves the one or more of the multiple keys a distance that is greater than a distance the other of the first or second directions moves the one or more of the multiple keys. 19. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein movement of a key does not move the housing. 20. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein the electroactive polymer actuator is configured to move at least some of the keys in multiple different directions. 21. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein a key, switch and electroactive polymer actuator form an assembly having a form factor height no greater than about 4.0 mm. 22. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein a key, switch and electroactive polymer actuator form an assembly having a form factor height between about 0.3223 mm to 4 mm. 23. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein a key, switch and electroactive polymer actuator form an assembly having a form factor height of about 1.7366 mm. 24. The keyboard of claim 18, wherein the second direction is generally opposite of the first direction. 