A spot welding gun for resistance welding of workpieces, includes a base body and a bracket, in which electrode holders are arranged, the electrodes being in turn arranged in the holders. At least one electrode holder is fixed to an actuator that enables the electrode holder fixed thereto with the electrode to be displaced in longitudinal direction towards other electrodes. To protect the electrodes a winding device with a band is arranged, the band being displaceably arranged between the contact surface of the electrode and the workpiece opposite the electrode. The winding device assigned to the displaceable electrode is connected to the displaceable electrode so that it moves at the same time as the electrode when the electrode is moved in longitudinal direction. The electrode holders and the electrodes have devices for guiding the band from the winding device axially along the electrode holders towards the electrode and vice versa.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A spot welding gun (1) for resistance welding of workpieces (1a), including a base body (2), a bracket (3) having a C-shaped configuration, and electrode holders (6) carrying electrodes (7) arranged on the bracket, each electrode having a respective spacer and a respective pressure element arranged on an end of the electrode, each respective spacer and respective pressure element being connected with the electrode so as to be movable along with the electrode in a longitudinal direction, the pressure element exerting a force on the spacer, wherein at least one electrode holder (6) is fastened to an actuating means (5) via which the electrode holder (6) fastened thereto is displaceable together with one of said electrodes (7) in the longitudinal direction to a further one of said electrodes (7), wherein a winding device (9) including an associated strip (8) is each provided for the protection of an associated electrode of the electrodes (7), one winding device being arranged on the bracket (3) mounted on the base body (2) and another winding device being arranged on the actuating means (5), each strip (8) being arranged to be displaceable relative to the associated electrode (7) between the contact surface of the electrode (7) and a workpiece (1a), and wherein the winding device (9) associated with the displaceable electrode (7) is connected with the displaceable electrode (7) so as to follow a longitudinal movement of said electrode (7), wherein each spacer and pressure element form a respective guide for the strip, wherein the strip is located in a spaced apart relationship to the electrode above the spacer and the pressure element with the spot welding gun being not closed, wherein the spacer lifts the strip from an electrode surface or an electrode cap during or after opening of the spot welding gun on account of the pressure exerted via the pressure element, whereas the spacer is pushed back against the pressure element during a welding procedure with the spot welding gun being closed, so that the electrode or electrode cap will contact the strip, wherein a pressure or force is exerted by the spacer on the workpiece in addition to the pressure force exerted by the spot welding gun on account of the pressure element, and wherein the electrode holders (6) and the electrodes (7) comprise means for guiding the strip (8) from the winding device (9) axially along the electrode holder (6) to the electrode (7) and again axially along the electrode holder (6) back to the winding device (9). 2. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 1, wherein each winding device (9) comprises a wind-off roller (10) and a wind-up roller (11) for the guidance of the associated strip (8) to the associated electrode (7) and back again to the winding device (9). 3. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 2, wherein the wind-off roller (10) and/or the wind-up roller (11) are coupled with a driving means (12). 4. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 3, wherein the driving means (12) comprises an electronically controllable motor. 5. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 2, wherein a braking device (13) is provided for each strip (8) to keep the strip (8) tight. 6. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 5, wherein the braking device (13) is controllable by a control device (14). 7. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 1, wherein the actuating means (5) comprises a hydraulically, pneumatically or electromotorically controllable drive. 8. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 7, wherein the drive comprises a cylinder (15) comprising a cylinder jacket (16), a piston (17) and a throughgoing piston rod (18), wherein the winding device (9) together with the strip (8) is adjustable via the piston (17) and the throughgoing piston rod (18), respectively. 9. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 8, wherein the piston rod (18) comprises a guide or bore (19) which is provided axially to the piston rod (18) for guiding the strip (8). 10. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 9, wherein the strip (8) for the protection of the electrode (7) extends from the wind-off roller (10) axially through a bore (19) provided in the piston rod (18) to the electrode (7) and, on the opposite side, again axially through the bore (19) provided in the piston rod (18) to the wind-up roller (11). 11. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 8, wherein the winding device (9) arranged on the actuating means is arranged on the piston rod (18) on the side opposite the electrode (7). 12. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 1, wherein a winding device (9) is rigidly arranged on the bracket (3). 13. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 12, wherein the bracket (3) comprises a bore (20) provided axially to the electrode (7) for guiding the strip (8). 14. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 13, wherein the strip (8) for the protection of the electrode (7) extends from the wind-off roller (10) axially through a bore (20) provided in the bracket (3) to the electrode (7) and, on the opposite side, again axially through the bore (20) provided in the bracket (3) to the wind-up roller (11). 15. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 12, wherein the winding device (9) arranged on the bracket (3) is arranged on the side opposite the electrode (7). 16. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 12, wherein a further actuating element (5) is arranged on the bracket (3), via which the electrode holder (6) fastened thereto, together with the electrode (7), is displaceable in the longitudinal direction to the further electrode (7). 17. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 16, wherein the actuating element (5) is comprised of a cylinder (15) and a piston (17) as well as a piston rod (18) positively connected with the former are arranged within the cylinder (15). 18. A spot welding gun (1) according to claim 12, wherein the bracket (3) is arranged to be displaceable via an actuating means (21) arranged in the base body (2). 