A polishing apparatus includes an arrangement of a plurality of units to deal with various operations and a robot having at least one arm. The plurality of units are disposed around the robot and include a loading unit for receiving thereon a, e.g. dry, workpiece to be polished, a polishing system including at least one polishing unit for polishing the workpiece, a washing system and a drying system at least including one washing unit for washing and drying the polished workpiece, and an unloading unit for receiving thereon a resultant clean and dry polished workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A polishing apparatus for polishing a wafer to thereby flatten the wafer, said apparatus comprising: a load/unload block operable to receive a cassette storing a wafer therein; a transport block having a robot for moving the wafer, a polishing block having a polishing table and a top ring, said polishing block being operable to polish the surface of the wafer to thereby flatten the wafer; a cleaning block operable to clean the polished wafer; and a control block operable to memorize a first relative position of said robot of said transport block with respect to said cassette of said load/unload block through teaching and memorize a second relative position of said robot of said transport block with respect to said cleaning block, wherein said load/unload block, said transport block, said polishing block, and said cleaning block have control devices, respectively, which are installed independently of each other in respective blocks. 2. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein: said load/unload block, said transport block, said polishing block, said cleaning block, and said control block can be mechanically installed and assembled independently of each other. 3. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one ancillary device selected from a group consisting of a polishing solution supply device, a waste management device, a cooling water supply device, and a warm water supply device; and at least one control device for connecting said ancillary device to said control block. 4. A polishing apparatus for polishing a wafer to thereby flatten the wafer, said apparatus comprising: a load/unload block operable to receive a cassette storing a wafer therein; a transport block having a robot for moving the wafer; a polishing block having a polishing table and a top ring, said polishing block being operable to polish the surface of the wafer to thereby flatten the wafer; a cleaning block operable to clean the polished wafer; and a control block operable to memorize a first relative position of said robot of said transport block with respect to said cleaning block through teaching and memorize a second relative position of said robot of said transport block with respect to said cassette of said load/unload block, wherein said load/unload block, said transport block, said polishing block, and said cleaning block have control devices, respectively, which are installed independently of each other in respective blocks. 5. The polishing apparatus according to claim 4 wherein: said load/unload block, said transport block, said polishing block, said cleaning block, and said control block can be mechanically installed and assembled independently of each other. 6. The polishing apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: at least one ancillary device selected from a group consisting of a polishing solution supply device, a waste management device, a cooling water supply device, and a warm water supply device; and at least one control device for connecting said ancillary device to said control block. 