A parallel reactor system including a reactor and vessels in the reactor for holding reaction mixtures, and a cannula for introducing fluid reaction material into the vessels. A robot system is operable to insert the cannula into cannula passages in the reactor for delivery of reaction materials, including condensed gases, to respective vessels, and to withdraw the cannula from the cannula passages after delivery. Related methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for parallel processing of multiple reaction mixtures, said apparatus comprising a reactor having an exterior surface, vessels within the reactor for holding the reaction mixtures comprising a low boiling reaction material delivered to the vessels in the form of a liquid phase condensate, the vessels and reactor adapted to maintain the reaction mixtures in the vessels at a pressure in excess of the vapor pressure of the condensate delivered to the vessels, a condensate delivery system comprising a source of the low boiling reaction material, a cannula having an inlet port and an outlet port, and a flow path for the low boiling reaction material from said source to the inlet port of said cannula, the condensate delivery system being adapted for delivering the liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material to the reaction vessels through the cannula, cannula passages in the reactor extending between the exterior surface of the reactor and the vessels, a sealing mechanism in each cannula passage, and a robot system operable to insert the cannula into the cannula passages to a point past the sealing mechanism for the delivery of the condensate from the cannula to a respective vessel, and to withdraw the cannula from the passages after said delivery, the sealing mechanism being adapted to seal the cannula passage upon withdrawal of the cannula from the passage. 2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the low boiling reaction material in said source is maintained at a pressure at least as great as the vapor pressure of the low boiling reaction material condensate. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said condensate delivery system further comprises means for cooling the low boiling reaction material in at least a portion of said flow path. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2 further comprising a pressurized reservoir in said flow path, said reservoir containing liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said reservoir in said flow path is a reservoir chamber of an accumulator assembly comprising an accumulator vessel containing said reservoir chamber and a second chamber separated from said reservoir chamber by a flexible barrier. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein the accumulator assembly comprises a bladder-type accumulator vessel. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein the accumulator assembly comprises a bellows-type accumulator vessel. 8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said condensate delivery system further comprises a pump in the flow path for pumping liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material to the inlet port of said cannula, and an injection valve in said flow path upstream from the inlet port of the cannula adapted to open and deliver a quantity of condensate under pressure to said cannula. 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8 further comprising a mount for mounting the cannula on the robot system, said cannula comprising a long metal tube, and wherein said apparatus further comprises a cannula support on the mount engageable with the tube intermediate the ends of the tube for supporting and stabilizing the tube in precise position as the cannula is moved. 10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein said injection valve is secured to said cannula mount adjacent said inlet port of the cannula. 11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said condensate delivery system is operable to deliver said condensate to said injection valve at a pressure of at least about 500 psig. 12. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said condensate delivery system is operable to deliver said condensate to the inlet port of said cannula at a pressure of at least about 500 psig. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robot system is operable to insert the cannula into each of said cannula passages into a respective vessel for sequential delivery of said condensate into the vessels. 14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said sealing mechanism comprises a valve movable between a closed position for sealing the cannula passage and an open position permitting movement of the cannula through the passage, and a seal in the passage sealingly engageable with the cannula when the valve is in its open position, said seal being located on a side of the valve opposite said vessel. 15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein said robot system is operable to insert said cannula into a cannula passage to a delivery position in which the distal end of the cannula is downstream from the valve for delivery of condensate to a respective vessel, then to withdraw the cannula to an intermediate position in which the distal end of the cannula is between the valve and said seal, the robot system holding the cannula in said intermediate position for a dwell period sufficient to allow the valve to close and seal the cannula passage prior to completely withdrawing the cannula from the passage. 16. Apparatus as set forth in claim 15 wherein each of said cannula passages extends at an angle relative to a longitudinal axis of a respective vessel in the reactor. 17. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the condensate delivery system further comprises a second cannula having an inlet port and an outlet port, and a flow path for the low boiling reaction material from said source to the inlet port of said second cannula, the condensate delivery system being adapted for delivering the liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material to the reaction vessels through the second cannula, said robot system being operable to insert the second cannula into the cannula passages to a point past the sealing mechanism for the delivery of the condensate from the cannula to a respective vessel, and to withdraw the second cannula from the passages after said delivery, said robot system being further operable to insert the cannulas into said cannula passages of two vessels for simultaneous delivery of said condensate into the vessels. 18. Apparatus for parallel processing of multiple reaction mixtures, said apparatus comprising a reactor having an exterior surface, vessels within the reactor for holding the reaction mixtures comprising a low boiling reaction material delivered to the vessels in the form of a liquid phase condensate, the vessels and reactor adapted to maintain the reaction mixtures in the vessels at a pressure in excess of the vapor pressure of the condensate delivered to the vessels, a condensate delivery system comprising a source of the low boiling reaction material, a cannula having an inlet port and an outlet port, a flow path for the low boiling reaction material from said source to the inlet port of said cannula, and means for cooling the low boiling reaction material in at least a portion of said flow path, the condensate delivery system being adapted for delivering the liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material to the reaction vessels through the cannula, cannula passages in the reactor extending between the exterior surface of the reactor and the vessels, each of said cannula passages extending at an angle relative to a longitudinal axis of a respective vessel in the reactor, a sealing mechanism in each cannula passage, and a robot system operable to insert the cannula into the cannula passages to a point past the sealing mechanism for the delivery of the condensate from the cannula to a respective vessel, and to withdraw the cannula from the passages after said delivery, the sealing mechanism being adapted to seal the cannula passage upon withdrawal of the cannula from the passage. 19. Apparatus as set forth in claim 18 further comprising a pressurized reservoir in said flow path, said reservoir containing liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material. 20. Apparatus as set forth in claim 19 wherein said reservoir in said flow path is a reservoir chamber of an accumulator assembly comprising an accumulator vessel containing said reservoir chamber and a second chamber separated from said reservoir chamber by a flexible barrier. 21. Apparatus as set forth in claim 18 wherein said condensate delivery system further comprises a pump in the flow path for pumping liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material to the inlet port of said cannula, and an injection valve in said flow path upstream from the inlet port of the cannula adapted to open and deliver a quantity of condensate under pressure to said cannula. 22. Apparatus as set forth in claim 21 further comprising a mount for mounting the cannula on the robot system, said cannula comprising a long metal tube, and wherein said apparatus further comprises a cannula support on the mount engageable with the tube intermediate the ends of the tube for supporting and stabilizing the tube in precise position as the cannula is moved. 23. Apparatus as set forth in claim 22 wherein said injection valve is secured to said cannula mount adjacent said inlet port of the cannula. 