An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a sample, incubating the sample, preforming an analyte isolation procedure, ascertaining the presence of a target analyte, and analyzing the amount of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte, and, in one embodiment, a method for real-time monitoring of the amplification process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring a signal emitted by the contents of each of a plurality of reaction receptacles comprising: a moving reaction receptacle carrier including a plurality of reaction receptacle stations, each of said reaction receptacle stations adapted to carry two or more reaction receptacles; a housing containing said reaction receptacles and said reaction receptacle carrier; two or more signal measuring devices, each said signal measuring device is constructed and arranged to measure the amount of a different optical signal emitted by the contents of a reaction receptacle placed in operative proximity to each signal measuring device, each signal measuring device being positioned with respect to said reaction receptacle carrier such that reaction receptacles carried on said reaction receptacle carrier are successively moved into operative proximity to each signal measuring device as said reaction receptacle carrier moves the reaction receptacles; and a signal measuring device transport mechanism located outside said housing and constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring devices with respect to said reaction receptacle carrier; wherein at least a portion of each of said signal measuring devices is located outside said housing, and each said signal measuring device is configured to measure the amount of an optical signal emitted by the contents of a reaction receptacle through an opening formed in said housing; wherein said reaction receptacle carrier is constructed and arranged to successively present said reaction receptacle stations in signal measuring positions in which one of the reaction receptacles carried in the reaction receptacle station is in operative proximity to one of said signal measuring devices, and said signal measuring device transport mechanism is constructed and arranged to move each said signal measuring device with respect to said reaction receptacle carrier to successively place each said signal measuring device into operative proximity to each of the reaction receptacles carried in the reaction receptacle station and moved into the signal measuring position corresponding to the signal measuring device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said signal measuring device is positioned below said reaction receptacle carrier. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising four signal measuring devices. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said signal measuring device comprises a fluorometer constructed and arranged to measure a fluorometric emission from the contents of a reaction receptacle, wherein each fluorometer measures a fluorometric emission having a different wavelength. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein each fluorometer comprises: an excitation component constructed and arranged to direct excitation energy at the reaction receptacle, wherein the excitation component of each fluorometer directs an excitation energy of a different wavelength at the reaction receptacle; and a detection component constructed and arranged to detect the amount of emission energy from the contents of the reaction receptacle, wherein the detection component of each fluorometer detects emission energy of a different wavelength. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein (a) said reaction receptacle carrier comprises a generally circular carousel mounted so as to be rotatable about an axis of rotation with said reaction receptacle stations positioned around the periphery of said carousel, and each said reaction receptacle station comprising two or more reaction receptacles aligned in a radial orientation with respect to the axis of rotation of said carousel, (b) rotation of said carousel successively presents said reaction receptacle stations in the signal measuring positions in which one of the radially-aligned reaction receptacles carried in said reaction receptacle station is in operative proximity to the signal measuring device corresponding to that signal measuring position, and (c) said signal measuring device transport mechanism is constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring devices in generally radial directions with respect to the axis of rotation of said carousel to successively place said signal measuring device into operative proximity to each of the radially-aligned reaction receptacles carried in the reaction receptacle station moved into the signal measuring position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said signal measuring device transport mechanism comprises: a fixed plate oriented generally perpendicularly with respect to the axis of rotation of said carousel; and a translating assembly operatively associated with each said signal measuring device, each translating assembly including a track mounted on said fixed plate in a generally radial orientation with respect to the axis of rotation of said carousel, each said signal measuring device being mounted on the associated translating assembly and movable along said track. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a mounting bracket for mounting each said signal measuring device to said translating assembly, wherein each said translating assembly further includes a bearing element to which said mounting bracket is attached, said bearing element being constructed and arranged to translate along said track of said translating assembly. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a sensor located at a predetermined position along each said track and constructed and arranged to detect the presence of said signal measuring device at said predetermined position along said track. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, said signal measuring device transport mechanism further comprising: a cam disk rotatably mounted adjacent to said fixed plate, each said track of said translating assemblies being arranged generally radially with respect to an axis of rotation of said cam disk, said cam disk including a cam slot associated with each said translating assembly, each said cam slot being arranged on said cam disk so that the radial distance between said cam slot and the axis of rotation of said cam disk varies from one end of said cam slot to an opposite end of said cam slot; a motor operatively coupled to said cam disk to effect powered rotation of said cam disk; and an engagement pin operatively associated with each said signal measuring device and engaged with an associated cam slot such that powered rotation of said cam disk causes said engagement pin to traverse along said cam slot, thereby causing a change in radial position of the associated signal measuring device in accordance with the change in the radial distance between the axis of rotation of said cam disk and the portion of the associated cam slot with which the engagement pin is engaged. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein each said cam slot includes positioning points along said cam slot, said positioning points being defined by each end of said cam slot and by one or more points along said cam slot at which the curvature of said cam slot changes, whereby when said engagement pin is engaged with said cam slot at a positioning point, said signal measurement device is positioned in operative proximity to one of the reaction receptacles carried in the reaction receptacle station. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 comprising four signal measuring devices, four translating assemblies, and four cam slots. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a portion of each said signal measuring device extends into said housing. 