In one embodiment, a method for removing native oxides from a substrate surface is provided which includes supporting a substrate containing silicon oxide within a processing chamber, generating a plasma of reactive species from a gas mixture within the processing chamber, cooling the substrate to a first temperature of less than about 65.degree. C. within the processing chamber, and directing the reactive species to the cooled substrate to react with the silicon oxide thereon while forming a film on the substrate. The film usually contains ammonium hexafluorosilicate. The method further provides positioning the substrate in close proximity to a gas distribution plate, and heating the substrate to a second temperature of about 100.degree. C. or greater within the processing chamber to sublimate or remove the film. The gas mixture may contain ammonia, nitrogen trifluoride, and a carrier gas.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for removing silicon oxides from a substrate surface, comprising: positioning a substrate comprising exposed silicon oxide in a first position within a processing chamber, the first position spaced a first distance from a gas distribution plate coupled to the chamber; generating a plasma of reactive species from a gas mixture within the processing chamber; contacting the exposed silicon oxide on the substrate with reactive species while forming a film on the substrate at a first temperature of less than about 65.degree. C.; moving the substrate into a second position within the processing chamber, the second position located a second distance from the gas distribution plate, the second distance being less than the first distance; and heating the substrate to a second temperature of about 100.degree. C. or greater within the processing chamber at the second position to sublimate the film. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the film comprises ammonium hexafluorosilicate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas mixture comprises ammonia, nitrogen trifluoride, and a carrier gas. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the gas mixture comprises a total volume of the ammonia and the nitrogen trifluoride within a range from about 0.05% to about 20%. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first temperature is about room temperature or less. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first temperature is about 22.degree. C. or less. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first temperature is within a range from about 15.degree. C. to about 50.degree. C. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first temperature is within a range from about 22.degree. C. to about 40.degree. C. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein heating the substrate comprises positioning the substrate adjacent a heated gas distribution plate disposed within the processing chamber. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the second temperature is within a range from about 115.degree. C. to about 200.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the second temperature is about 120.degree. C. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the second position is located within a range from about 10 mils to about 200 mils from the heated gas distribution plate. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas mixture comprises a molar ratio of ammonia to nitrogen trifluoride of at least 3:1. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the molar ratio of ammonia to nitrogen trifluoride is within a range from about 5:1 to about 30:1. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas distribution plate is heated to a temperature within a range from about 100.degree. C. to about 150.degree. C. while heating the substrate within the processing chamber to sublimate the film. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the substrate is located from the gas distribution plate a distance within a range from about 10 mils to about 200 mils. 17. A method for removing silicon oxides from a substrate surface within a processing chamber, comprising: generating a plasma of reactive species from a gas mixture within the processing chamber, wherein the plasma comprises ammonium fluoride or ammonium hydrogen fluoride; exposing a silicon oxide surface on a substrate located in a first position to the plasma at a first temperature of less than about 65.degree. C. while forming a film comprising ammonium hexafluorosilicate, the first position spaced a first distance from a gas distribution plate coupled to the chamber; heating the gas distribution plate within the processing chamber; positioning the substrate in a second position, the second position located a second distance from the gas distribution plate, the second distance being less than the first distance and within a range from about 10 mils to about 200 mils from the gas distribution plate; and heating the substrate to a second temperature of about 100.degree. C. or greater within the processing chamber at the second position to sublimate the film. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the gas mixture comprises ammonia, nitrogen trifluoride, and a carrier gas. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the gas mixture comprises a total volume of the ammonia and the nitrogen trifluoride within a range from about 0.05% to about 20%. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the first temperature is about 22.degree. C. or less. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the first temperature is within a range from about 15.degree. C. to about 50.degree. C. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the second temperature is about 120.degree. C. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the gas mixture comprises a molar ratio of ammonia to nitrogen trifluoride of at least 3:1. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the molar ratio of ammonia to nitrogen trifluoride is within a range from about 5:1 to about 30:1. 25. A method for removing silicon oxides from a substrate surface, comprising: supporting a substrate in a first position, the substrate comprising a silicon oxide surface within a processing chamber, the first position spaced a first distance from a gas distribution plate coupled to the chamber; generating a plasma of reactive species from a gas mixture within the processing chamber, wherein the gas mixture comprises ammonia, nitrogen trifluoride, and a carrier gas and the gas mixture comprises a total volume of the ammonia and the nitrogen trifluoride within a range from about 0.05% to about 20%; cooling the substrate to a first temperature of less than about 65.degree. C. within the processing chamber; exposing the silicon oxide surface on the cooled substrate to reactive species while forming a film on the substrate; moving the substrate to a second position within the processing chamber, the second position located a second distance from the gas distribution plate, the second distance being less than the first distance; and heating the substrate to a second temperature of about 100.degree. C. or greater within the processing chamber to sublimate the film. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the second temperature is within a range from about 115.degree. C. to about 200.degree. C., and the operating pressure within the chamber is within a range from about 500 milliTorr to about 30 Torr while heating substrate. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the second distance is within a range from about 10 mils to about 200 mils from the gas distribution plate. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the first temperature is within a range between about 22.degree. C. and 40.degree. C., and the second temperature is within a range from about 115.degree. C. and 200.degree. C. 