A method and apparatus is disclosed for remotely and robotically installing an organic, monolithic, structural and non structural, circumferential and partial radius membranes in conduits, pipelines or passageways. The included apparatus has the mechanical function to manually or automatically center the liner dissipation device in any geometrical shape. The included apparatus possesses the remote controlled capability to manipulate centrifugal dissipation of the liner to afford consistent thickness on any shaped profile or flat surface of the pipe wall surface. The apparatus includes a manual or automatic mechanical scissoring device for elevation changes and a manual or automatic rotational table for shaft alignment. The apparatus includes a means of automated self alignment by way of proximity sensors. The pendulum oscillation bracketing incorporates a fluid driven motor assembly communicating with a bored shaft and integrates as many as two offset dissipation devices. The included apparatus has both fluid and electrical rotary unions to transmit fluids and current from fixed ports to a rotating shaft assembly. The included apparatus has a mechanical function facilitating cutting and retrieval of cured spray build up on the spray orifice. This method and apparatus will allow for continuous lining applications of any thickness in one pass, in conduits and passageways employing multi component liquid polymers with rapid mechanical properties formation.
Claims What I claim is: 1. A large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device comprising a remotely adjustable scissor lift table and proximity sensors or gyroscopes for centering one or more spray nozzles in a vertical direction, a remotely operable rotational table for centering said one or more spray nozzles in a horizontal direction, a rotational shaft including said one or more spray nozzles with cylinder and piston attachment components for directing the one or more spray nozzles relative to a pipe wall, heated liner supply lines, a remotely operable impingement block and termination rod. 2. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 comprising a ball screw or actuator communicating with an electric servo motor or actuator controls and the rotational shaft wherein the ball screw or actuator moves the adjustable scissor lift table vertically by turning the rotational shaft for centering the spray nozzle. 3. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising an application of liner to all pipe wall surfaces in a thickness of 0.05 inches to 4.25 inches in one pass of the spray nozzle. 4. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising pendulum roller bracket for controlling a rotational head moving in a pendulum pattern and the rotational spray shaft and said one or more spray nozzles moving from side to side during an oscillation sequence. 5. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising spray lining pipes having diameters between 24 inches and 174 inches whereby all orientations of a pipe surface are evenly covered. 6. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 4 wherein the large diameter in situ spray liner device oscillating at up to 100 RPM. 7. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising a cutter and creel that can be deployed beneath a rotation path of a spray liner orifice wherein liner build up extending from the spray liner orifice is removed by a stiff blade and the liner build up falls into the creel and the blade and the creel can be retracted. 8. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising an extendable rotational shaft attached to the spray device whereby the one or more spray nozzles extends and retracts up to 72 inches from the rotational head. 9. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising remote control capability to change a direction of rotation of the large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device without interruption of the supply of liner to the one or more spray nozzles. 10. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising remote control capability to adjust the pressures, velocities and the flows of liner material streams to the in situ pipe spray liner device through the liner supply umbilical. 11. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising remote control capability to stop, start, or adjust the liner material stream utilizing the termination rod operating in the impingement block. 12. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising a ball screw-electric servo motor that can center the large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device in pipe, conduits, structures and passageways that are horizontal through varying degrees of slope to fully vertical. 13. The large diameter in situ pipe spray liner device of claim 1 further comprising reversing a rotation direction of the rotational shaft after each forward and reverse oscillation cycle. 