A method of diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease that includes obtaining experimental data, wherein the experimental data is high dimensional data, filtering the data, reducing the dimensionality of the data through use of one or more methods, training a supervised pattern recognition method, ranking individual data points from the data, wherein the ranking is dependent on the outcome of the supervised pattern recognition method, choosing multiple data points from the data, wherein the choice is based on the relative ranking of the individual data points, and using the multiple data points to determine if an unknown set of experimental data indicates a diseased condition, a predilection for a diseased condition, or a prognosis about a diseased condition.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. A method of diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining experimental data from a biological sample from an organism having the disease by isolating nucleic acids or proteins from the biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids or protein from the sample, wherein said experimental data from the biological sample is obtained from methods using analysis selected from the group consisting of: Protein arrays, protein chips, cell array based expression analysis, analysis of patterns of single nucleotide polymorphisms in disease conditions, comparative genomic hybridization on metaphase BAC genomic DNA, cDNA, or oligonucleotide arrays and gene expression data; (b) filtering said data; (c) reducing the dimensionality of said data through the use of one or more methods; (d) training a supervised pattern recognition method using the filtered and decreased dimensionality data, wherein said supervised pattern recognition method comprises an artificial neural network, wherein the artificial neural network when trained provides a probability distribution relationship between experimental data used as training data and a corresponding expected result for any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease; (e) ranking individual experimental data points from said experimental data to provide a total rank and a rank for the disease, wherein said ranking is dependent on a model formed from the training data of said supervised pattern recognition method; (f) choosing multiple data points from said experimental data, wherein said choice is based on said relative ranking of said individual data points for the disease; (g) using said multiple data points to classify a second biological sample having an unknown result by determining if a set of experimental data from the second sample indicates any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis about the disease; and (h) displaying the indication to a user. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said experimental data is gene expression data. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said gene expression data is obtained by using a cDNA or an oligonucleotide microarray. 4. The method of 3, wherein said step of filtering said gene expression data is based on the intensity of the spots on said microarray. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said multiple data points chosen from said data comprises at least 96 individual data points. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said disease is chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said disease is cancer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said cancer is a small round blue cell tumor. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said cancer is neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or a Ewing family of tumors. 10. A method of diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining experimental data from a biological sample from an organism having the disease by isolating nucleic acids or proteins from the biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids or protein from the sample, wherein said experimental data comprises gene expression data; (b) filtering said gene expression data; (c) reducing the dimensionality of said data through use of principal component analysis; (d) training a supervised artificial neural network using the filtered and reduced dimensionality data so as to provide a probability distribution relationship between experimental data used as training data and a corresponding expected result for any of the at least one disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease; (e) ranking individual genes from said gene expression data to provide a total rank and a rank for each gene for the disease, wherein said ranking is dependent on a model formed from the training data of said artificial neural network; (f) choosing multiple genes from said gene expression data, wherein said choice is based on the relative ranking of said individual genes; (g) using said multiple genes to classify a second biological sample having an unknown result by determining if a set of experimental data from the second sample indicates any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis about the disease; and (h) displaying the indication to a user. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said gene expression data is obtained through use of a cDNA or an oligonucleotide micro array. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of filtering said gene expression data is based on the intensity of the spots on said micro array. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said disease is cancer. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said cancer is a small round blue cell tumor. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said cancer is neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or a Ewing family of tumors. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein said disease is chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. 17. A computer-based method of determining a set of multiple data points for use in diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease, the computer-based method comprising: (a) receiving experimental data from a biological sample from an organism having the disease by isolating nucleic acids or proteins from the biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids or protein from the sample, wherein said experimental data comprises gene expression data; (b) filtering the experimental data; (c) reducing the dimensionality of the experimental data using one or more methods; (d) dividing the experimental data into a training data set and a validation data set; (e) training a supervised artificial neural network using the training data set to generate a trained artificial neural network that provides a probability distribution relationship between the training data set and a corresponding expected result for any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease; (f) validating the performance of the trained neural network using the validation data set; (g) generating a ranking data value corresponding to a relative ranking for individual data points data to provide a total rank and a rank for the disease using a model generated from the training data; (h) choosing the set of multiple data points from the data using the ranking data values; and (i) displaying the chosen set of multiple data points to a user. 18. A computer-based method of determining a set of multiple data points for use in diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease, the computer-based method comprising: (a) receiving experimental data from a biological sample from an organism having the disease by isolating nucleic acids from the biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids from the sample, wherein said experimental data comprises gene expression data obtained through use of a cDNA or an oligonucleotide microarray; (b) filtering the experimental data; (c) reducing the dimensionality of the experimental data using one or more methods; (d) dividing the experimental data into a training data set and a validation data set; (e) training a supervised artificial neural network using the training data set to generate a trained artificial neural network that provides a probability distribution relationship between the training data set and a corresponding expected result for any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease; (f) validating the performance of the trained neural network using the validation data set; (g) generating a ranking data value corresponding to a relative ranking for individual data points data to provide a total rank and a rank for the disease using a model generated from the training data; (h) choosing the set of multiple data points from the data using the ranking data values; and (i) displaying the chosen set of multiple data points to a user. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of filtering said gene expression data is based on the intensity of the spots on said micro array. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said disease is cancer. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said cancer is a small round blue cell tumor. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein said cancer is neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or a Ewing family of tumors. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of reducing the dimensionality of said data is accomplished by principal component analysis. 24. The method of claim 18, wherein said disease is chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. 25. A method of diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease comprising the steps of: (a) employing a disease model obtained by filtering gene expression data obtained from a biological sample from an organism having the disease by isolating nucleic acids or proteins from the biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids or protein from the sample, reducing dimensionality of the data, training a supervised artificial neural network so as to provide a probability distribution relationship between experimental data used as training data and a corresponding expected result for any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease, ranking individual gene data to provide a total rank and a rank for each disease from a model formed using said gene expression data, wherein said ranking is dependent on the outcome of said artificial neural network, and choosing multiple genes from said gene expression data, wherein said choice is based on the relative ranking of said individual genes for each disease; (b) using said multiple genes to classify a second biological sample having an unknown result by determining if a set of experimental data from the second sample indicates the disease, the predilection for a disease, or the prognosis about a disease; and (c) displaying the indication to a user. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said disease is chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. 27. A computer system including a model of a disease, the system comprising: a filter module configured to filter experimental data comprising gene expression data and to reduce dimensionality of the experimental data; a training module configured to train a supervised artificial neural network so as to provide a probability distribution relationship between experimental data used as training data and a corresponding expected result for any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease; a ranking module configured to generate a ranking of individual genes from the gene expression data to provide a total rank and a rank for each gene and each disease, the ranking being dependent on an outcome of the artificial neural network; a chooser module configured to choose multiple genes from the gene expression data based on the ranking of the individual genes; and an application module configured to use the multiple genes to classify a sample having an unknown result by determining if a set of experimental data from the sample indicates the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis about the disease; and a display module configured to display the classification of the sample. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said gene expression data is obtained through use of a cDNA or an oligonucleotide microarray. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said filter module is configured to filter said gene expression data based on an intensity of spots on said microarray. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein said filter module is configured to reduce the dimensionality of said data using principal component analysis. 31. The method of claim 27, wherein said disease is chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. 32. A computer system including a model of a disease, the system comprising: a filter module configured to filter experimental data comprising gene expression data, to reduce dimensionality of the experimental data using principle component analysis and to divide the experimental data into a training set and a validation set; a training module configured to train an artificial neural network using the training set to generate a trained artificial neural network so as to provide a probability distribution relationship between the training set and a corresponding expected result for any of the disease, the predilection for the disease, or the prognosis for the disease; a validator module configured to validate a performance of the trained artificial neural network using the validation set; a ranking module configured to generate a ranking data value corresponding to a relative ranking for individual data points data to provide a total rank and a rank for each disease using data from the trained artificial neural network; and a selection module configured to choose a set of multiple data points from the data using the ranking data values for each disease; and a display module configured to display the set of multiple data points. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein said gene expression data is obtained through use of a cDNA or an oligonucleotide micro array. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said filter module is configured to filter said gene expression data based on an intensity of spots on said microarray. 35. The method of claim 32, wherein said disease is chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. 