A method and apparatus for verifying radiation beam alignment in an image guided stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) delivery system such as the Cyberknife.TM.. This invention achieves precise verification of radiation beam alignment with a radiation beam detection apparatus mounted on a gimbal assembly. The radiation beam detection apparatus houses an alignment fixture of varying geometric shape, such as a metallic ball or can be an array of radio-opaque markers positioned symmetrically at the gimbal assembly's common rotation center. The radiation detection apparatus comprises a radiation detector such as film and an alignment mirror, which are parallel to each other on opposite sides of the alignment fixture. The radiation detector is used to capture a radiographic image of the alignment fixture and the circular radiation field. The resulting image is analyzed to determine the eccentricity of the radiation field and whether adjustment of node positions is required to eliminate any eccentricity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for verifying radiation beam alignment, comprising: providing a LINAC having a radiographic image guidance system and having a laser light beam that corresponds to the central axis of the LINAC; providing a beam detection apparatus which is mounted on a gimbal assembly; providing a beam detection apparatus having: a housing generally shaped as a cube or rectangle; and an alignment fixture that is supported in the housing and centered on the common rotation center of the gimbal assembly; and a radiation detector to detect radiation emitted from the LINAC and positioned on one side of the housing; and an alignment mirror positioned on the opposite side of the housing from the radiation detector such that it is parallel to said radiation detector; using the LINAC's image guidance system, the alignment fixture is positioned at an alignment center or isocenter of the LINAC; and selecting a node and positioning the LINAC at that node; and activating the laser light beam; adjusting the beam detection apparatus which is mounted on the gimbal assembly such that the alignment mirror is perpendicular to the laser light beam by locating the reflection of the laser light beam along the axis of the inbound laser light beam; delivering an amount of radiation from the LINAC to the alignment fixture with a collimator affixed on the LINAC; detecting or capturing a radiographic image of the alignment fixture on the radiation detector of the beam detection apparatus; analyzing the resulting image of the alignment fixture for eccentricity; and adjusting the node position to eliminate eccentricity. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiographic image of the alignment fixture is captured using solid-state detector arrays. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiographic image of the alignment fixture is captured using fluorescent screens coupled with a camera. 4. An apparatus for detecting and verifying radiation beam alignment, comprising: a housing generally shaped as a cube or rectangle; and an alignment fixture that is supported in the housing and centered on the common rotation center of a gimbal assembly and is made of radio-opaque material in a symmetric geometric shape; and a radiation detector positioned on one side of the housing; and an alignment mirror positioned on the opposite side of the housing from the radiation detector such that it is parallel to the radiation detector; and the housing is attached to the gimbal assembly on the two opposing sides of the housing that do not support the radiation detector or alignment mirror. 5. The apparatus in claim 4, wherein the gimbal assembly is motorized and controlled by computer and gimbal position is automatically provided to the computer, and said computer is integrated into a LINAC's image guidance system. 6. The apparatus in claim 4 wherein the alignment fixture that is supported in the housing and centered on the common rotation center of the gimbal assembly is made of steel. 7. An apparatus for detecting and verifying radiation beam alignment comprising: a housing generally shaped as a cube or rectangle; and an alignment fixture that is supported in the housing and centered on the common rotation center of a gimbal assembly and is an array of radio-opaque markers; and a radiation detector positioned on one side of the housing; and an alignment mirror positioned on the opposite side of the housing from the radiation detector such that it is parallel to the radiation detector; and the housing is attached to the gimbal assembly on the two opposing sides of the housing that do not support the radiation detector or alignment mirror. 8. The apparatus in claim 7, wherein the gimbal assembly is motorized and controlled by computer, and gimbal position is automatically provided to the computer, and said computer is integrated into a LINAC's image guidance system. 