The invention provides robotic surgical systems which allow selectable independent repositioning of an input handle of a master controller and/or a surgical end effector without corresponding movement of the other. In some embodiments, independent repositioning is limited to translational degrees of freedom. In other embodiments, the system provides an input device adjacent a manipulator supporting the surgical instrument so that an assistant can reposition the instrument at the patient's side.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for repositioning a master control relative to its associated slave in a robotic surgical system during a minimally invasive surgical procedure, comprising: interrupting a control loop between a master control and a slave; locking the slave in its position at the time of the interruption; locking an orientation of the master control at the time of the interruption while floating its translational movement; translationally moving the master control to a desired position; and uninterrupting the control loop between the master control and the slave. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the locking of the slave in its position comprises: storing the position of the slave in a memory; and maintaining the slave at that position using a slave-side control loop that is operative during the interruption of the control loop between the master control and the slave. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the locking of the master control in its orientation comprises: storing the position of the master control in memory, and maintaining an orientation corresponding to that position of the master control using a master-side control loop that is operative during the interruption of the control loop between the master control and the slave, while allowing translational movement of the master control. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein substantially at the time of uninterrupting the control loop between the master control and the slave, a new position of the master control resulting from its translational movement during the interrupting of the control loop is associated with the locked position of the slave so that the control loop does not determine an error in the position of the master control and does not attempt to correct that error after the uninterrupting of the control loop. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the interrupting of the control loop between the master control and the slave is initiated by a user of the master control activating an input device. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the input device is activated by the voice of the user. 7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the input device is a foot pedal activated by a foot of the user. 8. The method according to claim 5, wherein the input device is a finger button activated by a finger or thumb of the user. 