Locating desired placement locations of brackets for a patient's teeth includes obtaining an array of data points from a cast of the teeth and generating a virtual model from the array of scanned data points. Individual teeth from the virtual model can be manually severed or "cut" and manually dragged from a start position to a finished position to determine a treatment plan. The orthodontist virtually marks the position on the virtual model where a physical bracket is desired. Brackets can then be automatically placed onto a cast of the teeth at corresponding positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer implemented method of forming an indirect bonding tray, the method comprising: obtaining, at a computer including a processor and memory, an electronic model image of teeth of a patient based on a corresponding cast of the teeth, wherein the teeth of the cast are arranged in start positions; storing in the memory of the computer an array of start coordinates representing the start positions of the teeth of the electronic model image; obtaining at the computer instructions to modify the electronic model image to move the teeth of the electronic model image to finish positions; storing in the memory of the computer an array of finish coordinates representing the finish positions of the teeth of the electronic model image; obtaining at the computer a first array of bracket coordinates representing bracket mark locations for one or more of the teeth relative to the finish positions of the teeth; and transforming, using the processor of the computer, the bracket coordinates of the first array with an inverse matrix to obtain a second array of bracket coordinates, the bracket coordinates of the second array representing bracket mark locations for one or more of the teeth relative to the start positions of the teeth, the inverse matrix being generated based on the stored start coordinates and stored finish coordinates of the teeth. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying the bracket mark locations relative to the one or more teeth with the one or more teeth arranged in the start positions. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an output file including the bracket coordinates of the second array; and transmitting the output file to a marking device configured to mark the cast directly to indicate the bracket mark locations relative to the start positions. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising marking the cast to indicate the bracket mark locations based on the bracket coordinates of the second array. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein marking the cast to indicate the bracket mark locations comprises marking the cast using a robotic arm. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein marking the cast to indicate the bracket mark locations comprises marking the cast using a pen. 7. A system for creating an indirect bonding tray, the system comprising: computer memory configured to store an electronic model of teeth of a patient, start coordinates of the teeth, and finish coordinates of the teeth, the teeth being moveable between start positions and finish positions based on the start coordinates and finish coordinates, the computer memory also being configured to store an inverse matrix according to which the teeth are moved between the start and finish positions; a video display unit configured to display the electronic model of the teeth to a user; a user input device configured to obtain first bracket mark locations for the teeth of the electronic model when the teeth are displayed in the respective finish positions; a processor configured to obtain an inverse matrix based on the start and finish coordinates of the teeth and to calculate second bracket mark locations for the teeth when the teeth are arranged in the respective start positions based on the inverse matrix and based on the first bracket mark locations for the teeth. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the video display unit is configured to display the second bracket mark locations with the teeth of the electronic model arranged in the start positions. 9. The system of claim 7, further comprising a marking device configured to mark a cast of the teeth of the patient to indicate the second bracket mark locations relative to the teeth. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising: means for generating an output file representing the second bracket mark locations; and means for transmitting the output file to the marking device for directly marking the cast with the second bracket mark locations. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the marking device includes a robotic arm. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the marking device includes a pen. 