A method and apparatus for testing a plurality of electronic devices formed on a large area substrate is described. In one embodiment, the apparatus performs a test on the substrate in one linear axis in at least one chamber that is slightly wider than a dimension of the substrate to be tested. Clean room space and process time is minimized due to the smaller dimensions and volume of the system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for testing electronic devices on a large area substrate, comprising: a testing platform having a substrate support disposed thereon; an end effector movably disposed in the substrate support; and one or more testing columns coupled to the testing platform, each testing column having an optical axis and a test area, wherein the substrate is movable in a single axis and the single axis is orthogonal to the optical axis of the one or more testing columns, and wherein a collective test area of the testing columns is configured to cover an entire width or an entire length of the substrate such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate is moved through the apparatus along the single axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate support is movable relative to the testing platform. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate support is housed in a testing chamber and the testing chamber is coupled to a vacuum pump. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more testing columns comprise an electron beam column. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a prober coupled to the substrate support. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the prober further comprises a frame having at least one dimension that is larger than a dimension of the substrate. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the prober further comprises on or more prober bars. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more testing columns includes six or more testing columns. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the six or more testing columns are in a substantially straight line above the substrate support. 10. An apparatus for testing electronic devices located on a large area substrate, comprising: a testing platform having a support surface for supporting a large area substrate; a prober coupled to the testing platform; and a plurality of testing columns coupled to the testing platform in a first linear direction, each of the plurality of testing columns having an optical axis within a test area, wherein the substrate is movable in a second linear direction that is orthogonal to the optical axis and the plurality of testing columns have a collective test area sufficient to test an entire width or an entire length of the substrate such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate is moved in the linear direction through the apparatus. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the testing platform comprises: a substrate support. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the substrate support comprises an end effector movably disposed therein. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the testing platform comprises a prober support having the prober disposed thereon. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the testing platform is within a testing chamber and the testing chamber is coupled to a vacuum pump. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the prober further comprises a frame having at least one dimension that is larger than a dimension of the substrate. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the prober further comprises on or more prober bars. 17. A system for testing electronic devices located on a large area substrate, comprising: a testing platform; a substrate support disposed on the testing platform, the substrate support sized to receive a large area substrate; an end effector disposed within the substrate support adapted to move the substrate relative to the substrate support; a prober support coupled to the substrate support; and a plurality of testing devices coupled to an upper surface of the testing platform, each of the plurality of testing devices having a test area, wherein the plurality of testing devices are spaced to form a collective test area sufficient to test an entire length or an entire width of the substrate such that the testing devices are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate is moved in a single direction through the system. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein each of the plurality of testing devices has an optical axis and the substrate is movable in a direction orthogonal to the optical axis. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of testing devices include at least six electron beam columns. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of testing devices are in a substantially straight line. 