This invention relates to methods and apparatus for improving communications between humans and devices. The invention provides a method of modulating operation of a device, comprising: providing an attentive user interface for obtaining information about an attentive state of a user; and modulating operation of a device on the basis of the obtained information, wherein the operation that is modulated is initiated by the device. Preferably, the information about the user's attentive state is eye contact of the user with the device that is sensed by the attentive user interface.
Claims The inventon claimed is: 1. A method of modulating operation of a device, comprising: disposing a hardware sensor in or on the device for sensing attention of a user specifically toward the device; processing a signal from the hardware sensor and outputting to the device a measure or index of the user's attention toward the device; and modulating operation of the device on the basis of the measure or index of the user's attention toward the device; wherein the operation that is modulated is initiated by the device and provides a notification and/or information and/or communication to the user based on the user's attention toward the device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein, when the user's attention is not directed toward the device, modulating comprises the device notifying the user progressively, from a less interruptive notification to a more interruptive notification. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the notification is of at least one type selected from the group consisting of auditory, visual, and tactile. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein sensing attention comprises sensing one or more indices selected from the group consisting of eye contact, eye movement, eye position, eye gaze direction, voice, body presence, body orientation, head and/or face orientation, user activity, and brain activity/arousal. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein sensing attention comprises sensing eye contact. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein sensing eye contact comprises: obtaining successive full-frame video fields of alternating bright and dark video images of the pupils; and subtracting the images between frames to locate the pupils. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein sensing eye contact further comprises: detecting a glint in the eyes; and confirming eye contact when the glint is aligned with the pupils. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein sensing attention comprises sensing eye gaze direction. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the hardware sensor is attached to or embedded in the device. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a personal computer. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a cellular telephone. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a telephone. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a personal digital assistant (PDA). 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is an appliance. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein modulating comprises forwarding a notification to another device or a network of devices. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein modulating comprises modulating a notification being sent to the user by the device. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein modulating comprises forwarding the measure or index of the user's attention to another device or a network of devices. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is selected from an electronic device, a machine, and furniture. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation that is modulated is selected from the group consisting of notification, communication, information transfer, and a combination thereof. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein sensing attention comprises sensing one or more indices selected from the group consisting of eye contact, eye gaze direction, body orientation, head and/or face orientation, and user activity. 21. A method of modulating operation of a network of devices, comprising: providing in or on each device of the network of devices a hardware sensor for sensing attention of a user specifically toward each device; processing signals from the hardware sensors and outputting a measure or index of the user's attention toward the devices; and modulating operation of one or more of the devices on the basis of the measure or index of the user's attention toward the devices; wherein the operation that is modulated is initiated by at least one of the devices and provides a notification and/or information and/or communication to the user based on the user's attention toward the devices. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the operation that is modulated is selected from the group consisting of notification, communication, information transfer, and a combination thereof. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein modulating comprises routing the notification, communication, information transfer, or combination thereof, to a device with which the user is engaged. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein modulating further comprises modulating notification of the user progressively, from a less interruptive notification to a more interruptive notification. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein sensing the user's attention comprises sensing eye contact of the user with each device. 26. A method of modulating communication over a network of at least two devices, comprising: providing in or on a first device of a network of devices a hardware sensor for sensing a first user's attention specifically toward the first device; providing in or on a second device of a network of devices a hardware sensor for sensing a second user's attention specifically toward the second device; providing the first device of the network with a proxy for communicating to the first user the second user's attention toward the second device; providing the second device of the network with a proxy for communicating to the second user the first user's attention toward the first device; processing signals from the hardware sensors and relaying to the network a measure or index of the first and second users' attention toward the respective first and second devices; wherein communication between the first and second devices is modulated on the basis of the measure or index of the first and second users' attention toward their respective devices and provides a notification to the first and second users. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein communication between the first and second devices is enabled when respective proxies indicate that respective attention of the first and second users are toward their respective devices. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the device is a telephone. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the proxy is a representation of a user's eyes. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein the network comprises more than two devices. 