A disk drive testing system cooling circuit includes a plurality of test racks. Each of the test racks include a test slot compartment and a test electronics compartment. Each of the test slot compartments includes multiple test slots, and one or more cooling conduits configured to convey a cooling liquid toward the test slots. Each of the test electronics compartments includes test electronics configured to communicate with the test slots for executing a test algorithm, and a heat exchanger in fluid communication with the one or more cooling conduits. The heat exchanger is configured to cool an air flow directed toward the test electronics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disk drive testing system cooling circuit comprising: A) a plurality of test racks each comprising: i) a test slot compartment comprising a) multiple test slots; and b) one or more cooling conduits configured to convey a cooling liquid toward the test slots; and ii) a test electronics compartment comprising: a) test electronics configured to communicate with the test slots for executing a test algorithm; and b) a heat exchanger in fluid communication with the one or more cooling conduits and configured to cool an air flow directed toward the test electronics. 2. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 1, further comprising an inlet conduit disposed between the cooling conduits and a liquid supply line and configured to convey a liquid flow from the liquid supply line toward the cooling conduits. 3. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 2, wherein the inlet conduit includes a strainer configured to remove particulate from the liquid flow. 4. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 2, wherein the inlet conduit includes a forward-pressure regulator configured to control the inlet pressure of the liquid flow to the cooling conduits. 5. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 2, wherein the inlet conduit includes a distribution manifold comprising a plurality of tee connections each configured to portion the liquid flow to a corresponding one of test racks. 6. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 2, wherein the inlet conduit comprises a shut-off valve configured to isolate the test racks from the liquid supply line. 7. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 2, wherein the inlet conduit comprises a plurality of shut-off valves each configured to isolate a corresponding one of the test racks from the liquid supply line. 8. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 1, further comprising an outlet conduit disposed between the heat exchangers and a liquid return line and configured to convey a liquid flow from the heat exchangers toward the liquid return line. 9. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 8, wherein the outlet conduit comprises a return manifold comprising a plurality of tee connections each providing a fluid connection between a corresponding one of the heat exchangers and the return manifold. 10. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 8, wherein the outlet conduit includes a shut-off valve configured to isolate the test racks from the liquid return line. 11. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 8, wherein the outlet conduit comprises a plurality of shut-off valves each configured to isolate a corresponding one of the test racks from the liquid return line. 12. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 8, wherein at least one of the test racks further comprises an air mover disposed within the test electronics compartment and configured to direct an air flow across the heat exchanger and toward the test electronics for cooling the test electronics. 13. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 1, wherein the test electronics compartments are substantially isolated from the test slot compartments such that air flow between the test electronics compartments and the test slot compartments is substantially inhibited. 14. A disk drive testing system cooling circuit comprising: A) a test rack comprising: i) a test slot compartment comprising: a) a test slot, and ii) a test electronics compartment comprising: a) test electronics configured to communicate with the test slot for executing a test algorithm; B) an inlet conduit configured to convey a liquid to the test rack from an external source, and C) an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the inlet conduit and configured to convey a liquid from the test rack to a location remote from the test rack; and i) a heat exchanger comprising: a) an inlet port in fluid communication with the inlet conduit, and b) an outlet port in fluid communication with the outlet conduit; ii) a first air mover configured to direct cooled air from the heat exchanger toward the test electronics for cooling the test electronics; and D) a cooling conduit disposed within the test slot compartment configured to convey a cooling liquid towards the test slot, the cooling conduit comprising: i) an inlet opening in fluid communication with the inlet conduit, and ii) an outlet opening in fluid communication with the outlet conduit. 15. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 14, wherein the test slot comprises: a housing comprising: an outer surface, an internal cavity defined by the housing and comprising a test compartment for receiving a disk drive for testing, and an inlet aperture extending from the outer surface of the housing to the internal cavity. 16. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 15, further comprising a second air mover disposed outside of the internal cavity and configured to direct an air flow towards the test compartment through the inlet aperture. 17. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 14, further comprising a thermoelectric device connected to the cooling conduit and configured to cool an air flow entering the test slot. 18. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 17, wherein the thermoelectric device is operable to heat an air flow entering the test slot. 19. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 17, wherein the thermoelectric device is in electrical communication with the test electronics, wherein the test electronics are configured to control operation of the thermoelectric device. 20. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 19, wherein the test slot includes a temperature sensor in electrical communication with the test electronics, wherein the test electronics are configured to control operation of the thermoelectric device based, at least in part, on signals received from the temperature sensor. 21. The disk drive testing system cooling circuit of claim 19, wherein the test electronics are configured to control operation of the thermoelectric device based, at least part, on a predetermined test algorithm. 