A processing system is described for depositing materials on multiple workpieces (wafers, display panels, or any other workpieces) at a time in a vacuum chamber. Multiple targets, of the same or different materials, may concurrently deposit material on the wafers as the pallet is rotating. Multiple magnets (one for each target) in the magnetron assembly in the sputtering chamber oscillate back and forth across an arc over their respective targets for uniform target erosion and uniform deposition on the wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing system comprising: a sputtering system comprising: a low pressure chamber; a rotatable first pallet in the chamber, the rotatable first pallet having a plurality of workpiece support areas for concurrently supporting a plurality of workpieces on the first pallet; a plurality of targets having sputtering surfaces facing the first pallet, the targets being located in a first plane, each of the targets having a substantially triangular shape; a first port for receiving workpieces one at a time for loading one at a time onto the workpiece support areas; a first motor for rotating the first pallet such that workpieces oppose different target sputtering surfaces at different times during sputtering operations; a plurality of magnets, each magnet opposing a back side of an associated target, the magnets being located in a second plane, each of the magnets having a substantially triangular shape; and an actuator connected to the magnets for identically scanning the magnets back and forth in a curved path in only the second plane over their associated targets during a sputtering operation, the curved path being less than 90 degrees, such that after a plurality of scans of the magnets each magnet scans a substantially triangular area corresponding to a shape of its associated target. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of targets comprise at least a first target of a first material and a second target of a second material different from the first material, wherein the first target and the second target simultaneously sputter materials onto surfaces of the plurality of workpieces. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of targets comprise at least a first target and a second target, the first target and the second target being formed of the same material, wherein the first target and the second target simultaneously sputter material onto surfaces of the plurality of workpieces. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a receiving area for receiving a plurality of workpieces for processing; a transport module connected to the receiving area, the transport module being sealable for being at a low pressure significantly below ambient pressure; a robotic arm within the transport module for transporting the workpieces from the receiving area to a cleaning chamber; the cleaning chamber being connected to the transport module, the cleaning chamber being sealable for being at the low pressure, the cleaning chamber comprising: a low pressure cleaning chamber; a rotatable second pallet in the cleaning chamber, the rotatable second pallet having a plurality of workpiece support areas for concurrently supporting a plurality of workpieces on the second pallet for batch cleaning of the workpieces using a plasma; a second port for receiving workpieces one at a time for loading one at a time onto the workpiece support areas; and a second motor for rotating the second pallet; the robotic arm transporting cleaned workpieces one at a time from the second pallet to the first pallet in the sputtering system without exposing the workpieces to ambient pressure. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the first pallet is directly driven by the first motor, wherein a motor shaft is fixedly connected to the first pallet. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the first motor is an absolute encoder servo motor. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the workpiece supporting areas comprise electrostatic chucks. 8. A method for sputtering onto a workpiece comprising: placing a plurality of workpieces, one at a time, on a rotatable first pallet in a sputtering chamber, the rotatable first pallet having a plurality of workpiece support areas; creating a plasma in the sputtering chamber to sputter material from a plurality of targets to the workpieces, each of the targets having a substantially triangular shape; rotating the first pallet such that workpieces oppose different targets at different times during sputtering operations, the targets being located in a first plane; rotating the first pallet between sputtering operations to align each workpiece support area with at least one port of the sputtering chamber for adding and removing workpieces to and from the first pallet; and scanning a plurality of magnets, the magnets being located in a second plane, each magnet opposing a back side of an associated target and having a substantially triangular shape, back and forth in a curved path only in the second plane over the associated target during a sputtering operation, the curved path being less than 90 degrees, such that after a plurality of scans of the magnets each magnet scans a substantially triangular area corresponding to a shape of its associated target. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the plurality of targets comprise at least a first target of a first material and a second target of a second material different from the first material, the method further comprising simultaneously sputtering materials onto surfaces of the plurality of workpieces from the first target and the second target. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the plurality of targets comprise at least a first target and a second target, the first target and the second target being formed of the same material, the method further comprising simultaneously sputtering material onto surfaces of the plurality of workpieces from the first target and the second target. 11. The method of claim 8 further comprising: receiving a plurality of workpieces for processing at a receiving area; creating a low pressure in a transport module connected to the receiving area; transporting the workpieces, using a robotic arm within a transport module, from the receiving area to a cleaning chamber; creating a low pressure in the cleaning chamber; rotating a second pallet in the cleaning chamber, the rotatable second pallet having a plurality of workpiece support areas for concurrently supporting a plurality of workpieces on the second pallet for batch cleaning of the workpieces using a plasma; rotating the second pallet between batch cleaning operations to align each workpiece support area with at least one port of the cleaning chamber for adding and removing workpieces to and from the second pallet; and transporting by the robotic arm cleaned workpieces one at a time from the second pallet to the first pallet in the sputtering system without exposing the workpieces to ambient pressure. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the first pallet is directly driven by a first motor, wherein the first motor is directly connected to a shaft fixed to the first pallet. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the first motor is an absolute encoder servo motor. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein the first motor rotates the pallet while sputtering is being performed. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein the first motor stops rotating the pallet while sputtering is being performed. 16. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of movable pins having a first position below the pallet and being controlled to raise and extend through holes in the pallet at the individual support areas for lifting the workpieces off the support area during loading the workpieces onto the pallet and unloading the workpieces from the pallet, the pins, when moved to their first position, lowering the workpieces onto the support areas such that the entire back surface of the wafer is in contact with the pallet. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein there are at least four pins per support area. 18. The method of claim 8 wherein the pallet is rotating while sputtering is being performed. 19. The method of claim 8 wherein the pallet is stopped while sputtering is being performed. 20. The method of claim 8 further comprising selectively energizing fewer than all targets in the sputtering chamber so that only sputtering from energized targets occurs. 21. The method of claim 8 further comprising moving a plurality of pins between a first position below the pallet to a second position extending through holes in the pallet at the individual support areas for lifting the workpieces off the support area during loading the workpieces onto the pallet and unloading the workpieces from the pallet, the pins, when moved to their first position, lowering the workpieces onto the support areas such that the entire back surface of the wafer is in contact with the pallet. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein there are at least four pins per support area. 