A treatment couch having a tabletop that has a radiolucent region, and a lower-torso assembly that has a first slide member coupled to a slot of the tabletop, a second slide member coupled to a slot of the first slide member, and a link member coupled to the first and second slide members. The lower-torso assembly may be configured to adjust a patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop while the lower-torso assembly remains outside the radio lucent region of the tabletop.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: loading a patient onto a treatment couch having a tabletop and a lower-torso assembly; adjusting the patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop using the lower-torso assembly while the lower-torso assembly remains outside a radiolucent region of the tabletop; and converting the lower-torso assembly between a bolster seat and a flat tabletop. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the patient along the longitudinal direction comprises manually adjusting the position of the lower-torso assembly to adjust the patient along the longitudinal direction relative to the shoulder line. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the patient comprises adjusting an upper half of the patient relative to the shoulder line of the tabletop. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the patient comprises positioning the shoulders of the patient at the shoulder line regardless of the height of the patient. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein positioning the shoulders comprises: moving the lower-torso assembly in a translational direction that is substantially perpendicular to the shoulder line; and locking the lower-torso assembly to the tabletop when the shoulders of the patient are at the shoulder line. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein converting the lower-torso assembly comprises: configuring the lower-torso assembly to be substantially flat with respect to a plane of the top surface of the tabletop; and configuring an upper section of the lower-torso assembly to be at an angle with respect to the plane of the top surface of the tabletop. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein converting the lower-torso assembly comprises: moving a first slide bar, coupled to a first hinge, along a slot of the tabletop; and moving a second slide bar, coupled to a second hinge, along a slot of the first slide bar, wherein moving the first and second slide bars comprises moving a link member, coupled to the first and second hinges, between a flat configuration and a seat configuration. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein converting the lower-torso assembly further comprises locking relative positions of the first slide bar and the second slide bar, and wherein the relative positions configure the lower-torso assembly to be in at least one of a seat configuration, a flat configuration, or an intermediate configuration between the seat configuration and the flat configuration. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein converting the lower-torso assembly further comprises: moving hinge centers of the first and second hinges towards one another to form the bolster seat with the link member; and moving hinge centers of the first and second hinges away from one another to configure the link member to be substantially flat with respect to a top surface of the tabletop to form the flat tabletop. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein converting the lower-torso assembly further comprises locking the positions of the first and second hinges, and wherein the relative positions configure the lower-torso assembly to be in at least one of a seat configuration, a flat configuration, or an intermediate configuration between the seat configuration and the flat configuration. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the lower-torso assembly is converted before loading the patient onto the treatment couch. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the lower-torso assembly is converted after loading the patient onto the treatment couch. 13. A method, comprising: loading a patient onto a treatment couch having a tabletop and a lower-torso assembly; adjusting the patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop using the lower-torso assembly while the lower-torso assembly remains outside a radiolucent region of the tabletop; and converting the lower-torso assembly between a seat configuration and a flat configuration, wherein a top surface of the lower-torso assembly is configured to be flat along the substantially same plane as a top surface of the tabletop in the flat configuration, and wherein a top surface of an upper section of the lower-torso assembly is positioned to be at an angle with respect to the plane of the top surface of the tabletop in the seat configuration. 14. An apparatus, comprising: a tabletop having a radiolucent region; and a lower-torso assembly coupled to the tabletop, wherein the lower-torso assembly comprises: a first slide member coupled to a slot of the tabletop; a second slide member coupled to a slot of the first slide member; and a link member coupled to the first slide member and the second slide member, wherein the first slide member, second slide member, and link member are disposed outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a locking mechanism coupled to the first slide member and the tabletop, wherein the first slide member is configured to slide along the slot of the tabletop when the first locking mechanism is disengaged to adjust a patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop while the lower-torso assembly remains outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the link member comprises an upper section and a lower section, wherein top surfaces of the upper and lower sections of the link member are configured to be flat with respect to a top surface of the tabletop in a first configuration, and wherein the top surface of the upper section of the link member is configured to be at an angle with respect to the top surface of the tabletop in a second configuration. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first slide member is a first slide bar, wherein the second slide member is a second slide bar, and wherein the apparatus further comprises: a first hinge coupled to the first slider bar; and a second hinge coupled to the second slide bar; wherein the link member is coupled to the first hinge and the second hinge. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a first locking mechanism coupled to the first slide bar, wherein the first locking mechanism is configured to lock relative positions of the first slide bar and the second slide bar. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the relative positions comprises at least one of a seat configuration, a flat configuration, or an intermediate configuration between the seat configuration and the flat configuration. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein at the flat configuration the first slide bar and the second slide bar are locked with their hinge centers at a distance substantially equal to the length of the link member, and wherein at the seat configuration the first and second slide bars are locked with their hinge centers at a distance less than the length of the link member. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the first locking mechanism is configured to allow the first slide bar and the second slide bar to slide the hinge centers of the first and second hinges relative to one another when the first locking mechanism is disengaged, and to prevent the first slide bar and the second slide bar to slide the hinge centers of the first and second hinges relative to one another when the first locking mechanism is engaged. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first locking mechanism is a pin. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the pin is a spring pin. 24. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a second locking mechanism coupled to the first slide bar and the tabletop, wherein the second locking mechanism is configured to lock the relative position of the first slide bar and the tabletop, and wherein the lower-torso assembly is configured to move along the longitudinal direction of the tabletop when the second locking mechanism is disengaged from the tabletop. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the patient load is carried in shear by the second locking mechanism on the first slide bar and in moment by the boundaries of the slot of the tabletop. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the tabletop comprises a plurality of height positions at which the second locking mechanism locks the first slide member to the tabletop. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the plurality of height positions comprise at least a first height position and a second height position, wherein the first height position is configured to position a female having the one percentile female height to the shoulder line of the tabletop, and wherein the second height position is configured to position a male having the 99.sup.th percentile male height to the shoulder line of the tabletop. 28. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the second locking mechanism is a spring pin. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the pin is a spring pin. 30. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the link member comprises one or more rigid links. 31. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the link member comprises: a first rigid link coupled to the first hinge; and a second rigid link coupled to the second hinge and to the first rigid link using a third hinge, wherein the first and second rigid links are configured to rotate relative to each other while being fixed in the other direction at the first and second hinges, respectively. 32. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the link member comprises: a first rigid link coupled to the first hinge; a second rigid link coupled to the first rigid link using a third hinge; and a third rigid link coupled to the second hinge and the second rigid link using a fourth hinge, wherein the first, second, and third rigid links are configured to rotate relative to each other. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the rotation of the first, second, and third rigid links are restricted. 34. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first slide member is a seat positioning bar, wherein the second slide member is a bolster bar, wherein the link member comprises a seat pan and a lower-leg support member, and wherein the apparatus further comprises: a first hinge coupled to the seat positioning bar and the seat pan; a second hinge coupled to the bolster bar and the lower-leg support member; and a third hinge coupled to the seat pan and the lower-leg support member. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising a foot extension coupled to the lower-leg support member, wherein the foot extension is configured to provide support beyond the surface area of the lower-leg support member. 36. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the seat pan comprises one or more patient handles. 37. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the radiolucent region of the tabletop is substantially from a head end of the tabletop to substantially the first hinge. 38. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the radiolucent region of the tabletop is substantially from a head end of the tabletop to substantially the seat pan. 39. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein all components of the lower-torso assembly are disposed outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 40. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the lower-torso assembly is metal, and wherein substantially all of the metal of the lower-torso assembly is outside of the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 41. The apparatus of claim 14, when the lower-torso assembly is configured to be a bolster seat on the tabletop in a first configuration, and wherein the bolster seat is configured to be positioned at a plurality of positions along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop when in the first configuration. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the bolster seat is configured to have a seat pan of approximately 120 degrees between a top surface of the seat pan and a top surface of the tabletop. 43. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the bolster seat is configured to have a seat pan of approximately 135 degrees between a top surface of the seat pan and a top surface of the tabletop. 44. The apparatus of claim 14, when the lower-torso assembly is configured to be a flat tabletop on the tabletop in a second configuration. 45. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the tabletop and the lower-torso assembly are configured to provide a support assembly that has a flat surface upon which the patient is disposed in a first configuration, and wherein the tabletop and the lower-torso assembly are configured to provide a support assembly having a seat to support a lower-torso area of the patient in a second configuration. 46. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first slide member is an upper-seat bracket, wherein the second slide member is a lower-seat bracket, and wherein the upper-seat bracket and the lower-seat bracket are configured to move relative to one another in along the longitudinal direction relative to the shoulder line of the tabletop when a first locking mechanism is disengaged, and to move together along the longitudinal direction relative to the shoulder line of the tabletop when a second locking mechanism is disengaged. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the link section comprises: a seat pan coupled to the upper-seat bracket by a first hinge; and a lower-leg support coupled to the lower-seat bracket by a second hinge, and wherein the seat pan and the lower-leg support are coupled together by a third hinge. 48. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the seat pan comprises one or more patient handles. 49. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the lower-torso assembly comprises a foot extension coupled to the lower-leg support, and wherein the foot extension is configured to support a lower portion of the legs of the patient when the legs of the patient go beyond the lower-leg support. 50. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the first locking mechanism is a seat creation handle, wherein the seat creation handle is configured to allow the lower-torso assembly to convert between a bolster seat on the tabletop and a flat tabletop when disengaged, wherein the second locking mechanism is a seat motion handle, and wherein the seat motion handle is configured to allow the lower-torso assembly to move along the longitudinal direction relative to the shoulder line of the tabletop when disengaged. 51. An apparatus, comprising: a tabletop; and means for positioning patients of various heights at a shoulder line on the tabletop while the means for positioning patients remain outside a radiolucent region of the tabletop, and wherein the radiolucent region is above the lowest point of the rear pelvic area of the human body, wherein the means for positioning patients comprises: means for moving a patient in the longitudinal direction relative to the shoulder line of the tabletop, wherein the means for moving the patient remain outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop; and means for converting the positioning means between a flat configuration and a bolster seat configuration. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein the means for positioning patients increases an available workspace of a radiation source of a radiation treatment system. 53. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein the means for positioning patients remain outside an imaging zone of the patient for the patients of various heights. 54. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein the means for positioning patients comprises means for not entering the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 55. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein the means for positioning patients comprises means for not obstructing an imaging zone of the patient for the patients of various heights, and wherein the imaging zone is above at least the highest point of the leg posterior to the hip of the human body. 56. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein the means for positioning patients comprises means for supporting a patient load up to approximately 500 pounds (lbs). 57. A system, comprising: a radiation treatment system comprising a radiation source; and a treatment couch upon which a patient is disposed, wherein the treatment couch comprises: a tabletop having a radiolucent region; and a lower-torso assembly coupled to the tabletop, wherein the lower-torso assembly comprises: a first slide member coupled to a slot of the tabletop; a second slide member coupled to a slot of the first slide member; and a link member coupled to the first slide member and the second slide member, wherein the slots of the tabletop and the slot of the first slide member are disposed outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 58. The system of claim 57, wherein the lower-torso assembly further comprises a locking mechanism coupled to the first slide member and the tabletop, wherein the first slide member is configured to slide along the slot of the tabletop when the first locking mechanism is disengaged to adjust a patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop while the lower-torso assembly remains outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 59. The system of claim 57, wherein the radiation treatment system is at least one of a gantry-based radiation treatment system or a robot-based linear accelerator system. 60. The system of claim 57, further comprising a patient positioning system to position the patient with respect to the radiation source of the radiation treatment system, wherein the patient positioning system comprises a robotic arm coupled to the treatment couch, and wherein the robotic arm is configured to move the treatment couch along one or more degrees of freedom. 61. The system of claim 60, wherein the robotic arm is configured to move the treatment couch along at least three degrees of freedom. 62. The system of claim 60, wherein the robotic arm is configured to move the treatment couch along five degrees of freedom. 63. A system, comprising: a computed tomography (CT) scanner; and a treatment couch upon which a patient is disposed, wherein the treatment couch comprises: a tabletop having a radiolucent region; and a lower-torso assembly coupled to the tabletop, wherein the lower-torso assembly comprises: a first slide member coupled to a slot of the tabletop; a second slide member coupled to a slot of the first slide member; and a link member coupled to the first slide member and the second slide member, wherein the slots of the tabletop and the slot of the first slide member are disposed outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 64. The system of claim 63, wherein the lower-torso assembly further comprises a locking mechanism coupled to the first slide member and the tabletop, wherein the first slide member is configured to slide along the slot of the tabletop when the first locking mechanism is disengaged to adjust a patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop while the lower-torso assembly remains outside the radiolucent region of the tabletop. 65. The system of claim 63, further comprising a patient positioning system to position the patient with respect to the CT scanner, wherein the patient positioning system comprises a robotic arm coupled to the treatment couch, and wherein the robotic arm is configured to move the treatment couch along one or more degrees of freedom. 66. The system of claim 65, wherein the robotic arm is configured to move the treatment couch along at least three degrees of freedom. 67. The system of claim 65, wherein the robotic arm is configured to move the treatment couch along five degrees of freedom. 68. An apparatus, comprising: a treatment couch, to load a patient thereon, having a tabletop and a lower-torso assembly, wherein the lower-torso assembly is configured to: adjust the patient along a longitudinal direction relative to a shoulder line of the tabletop while the lower-torso assembly remains outside a radiolucent region of the tabletop; and convert the lower-torso assembly between a bolster seat and a flat tabletop. 