Described herein is electroadhesion technology that permits controllable adherence between two objects. Electroadhesion uses electrostatic forces of attraction produced by an electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is applied using electrodes in an electroadhesive device. The electrostatic adhesion voltage produces an electric field and electrostatic adherence forces. When the electroadhesive device and electrodes are positioned near a surface of an object such as a vertical wall, the electrostatic adherence forces hold the electroadhesive device in position relative to the surface and object. This can be used to increase traction or maintain the position of the electroadhesive device relative to a surface. Electric control of the electrostatic adhesion voltage permits the adhesion to be controllably and readily turned on and off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of adhering a device to a substrate comprising: applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between a first electrode at a first location of a deformable surface of the device and a second electrode at a second location of the deformable surface, wherein the deformable surface is included in a deformable insulation material that includes an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa, and includes a thickness less than about 2 millimeters between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and between the second electrode and the substrate surface; adhering the deformable surface to the substrate surface using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference; maintaining the electrostatic attraction force while the deformable surface of the device contacts the substrate surface; and after adhering the deformable surface of the device to the substrate surface, increasing surface area contact between the deformable surface and the substrate surface by deforming the deformable surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of increasing surface area contact includes moving a portion of the deformable surface closer to the surface of the substrate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate acts as an insulator for the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate acts as a conductor for the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the insulation material includes the deformable surface. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are both in contact with the surface of the substrate when the differential voltage is applied. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrostatic force between the device and the substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between the deformable surface and the substrate surface. 9. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere to a substrate, the electroadhesive device comprising: a deformable surface adapted to contact a surface of the substrate; a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the deformable surface; and a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the deformable surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the device and the substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate, and wherein at least a portion of said deformable surface is adapted to move closer to the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the deformable surface includes a surface of a compliant material having an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 11. The device of claim 9, wherein the deformable surface includes a material or structure that is bendable but not substantially elastically extendable. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the deformable surface comprises a thin metal layer. 13. The device of claim 9, wherein the electrostatic force between the device and the substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between the deformable surface and the surface of the substrate. 14. The device of claim 9, further comprising a support structure mechanically coupled to a material that includes the deformable surface. 15. An electroadhesive device, comprising: a plurality of electrodes configured to apply a plurality of voltages at the electroadhesive device, wherein the plurality of voltages results in at least one electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and a foreign substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the electroadhesive device relative to the foreign substrate; and a deformable component adapted to contact a surface of the foreign substrate, wherein at least a portion of said deformable component is adapted to move closer to the foreign substrate when the at least one electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 16. The electroadhesive device of claim 15, further comprising a deformable insulation material disposed between one or more of said plurality of electrodes and the surface of the foreign substrate. 17. The electroadhesive device of claim 16, wherein the deformable insulation material includes a compliant material with an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 18. The electroadhesive device of claim 15, wherein the electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and the foreign substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the electroadhesive device relative to the foreign substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between the deformable component and the surface of the foreign substrate. 19. The electroadhesive device of claim 15, wherein said plurality of electrodes include one or more cilium configured to deform to the surface when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 20. The electroadhesive device of claim 15, wherein said foreign substrate comprises a wall or a ceiling. 