A medical instrument assembly and robotic medical system are provided. The assembly comprises a shaft, a tool carried by the distal end of the shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient, a controllably bendable section associated with shaft and disposed proximal to the tool, an actuation element extending within the shaft and along the bendable section for controlling actuation of the tool, another actuation element configured for actuating the bendable section, and means for decoupling motion at the bendable sections from the tool actuation. The system comprises the assembly, a user interface configured for generating commands, a drive unit coupled to the actuating element and the other actuating element, and an electric controller configured, in response to the commands, for directing the drive unit to move the actuating elements to actuate the tool and drive the other actuating element to bend the bendable section.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: a flexible elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; a tool carried by the distal end of the elongated shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient; at least one controllably bendable section associated with elongated shaft and disposed proximal to the tool; at least one actuation element extending within the elongated shaft and along the at least one controllably bendable section and operable for actuating the tool; another actuation element configured for actuating the controllably bendable section; and means for decoupling motion at the at least one controllably bendable section from the tool actuation; wherein each of the at least one actuation element comprises a cable; and wherein each of the at least one actuation element further comprises a sleeve disposed about the respective cable to prevent compression of the respective cable. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the tool comprises a pair of jaw members that are actuated to alternately close and open. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one actuating element is a single actuating element coupled to the tool. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the at least one actuation element comprises a helical spring disposed about the respective sleeve. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the decoupling means comprises the at least one actuation element positioned at least one of a substantially center axis and substantially center plane of the controllably bendable section. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 5, wherein the decoupling means further comprises at least one spacer disposed within the elongated shaft for positioning the at least one actuation element at the at least one of a substantially center axis and substantially center plane of the controllably bendable section. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 5, wherein the controllably bendable section comprises a ball joint, and wherein the decoupling means further comprises a funnel-like orifice disposed within the ball joint through which the at least one actuation element extends for positioning the at least one actuation element at the at least one of a substantially center axis and substantially center plane of the controllably bendable section. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 5, wherein the controllably bendable section comprises a wrist joint, and wherein the decoupling means further comprises a pair of fixed posts between which the at least one actuation element extends for positioning the at least one actuation element at the at least one of a substantially center axis and substantially center plane of the controllably bendable section. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one actuation element comprises a plurality of actuation elements, and wherein the decoupling means comprises the actuation elements twisted around each other. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 9, wherein the plurality of actuation elements are twisted around each other by substantially 180 degrees. 11. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: a flexible elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; a tool carried by the distal end of the elongated shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient; at least one controllably bendable section associated with elongated shaft and disposed proximal to the tool; at least one actuation element extending within the elongated shaft and along the at least one controllably bendable section and operable for actuating the tool; another actuation element configured for actuating the controllably bendable section; means for decoupling motion at the at least one controllably bendable section from the tool actuation; and an instrument coupler mounted to the proximal end of the elongated shaft, the instrument coupler carrying a plurality of rotatable wheels to which the at least one actuation element and the other actuation element are respectively mounted. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 11, further comprising an adapter coupler to which the instrument coupler is configured for being removably mated, the adapter coupler having a plurality of complementary wheels that mechanically interfaces with the plurality of wheels of the instrument coupler. 13. The medical instrument assembly of claim 12, further comprising cabling extending from the adapter and configured for coupling a drive unit to the plurality of complementary wheels. 14. The medical instrument assembly of claim 11, further comprising a carriage on which the instrument coupler is mounted. 15. A robotic medical system, comprising: a medical instrument assembly, comprising: a flexible elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; a tool carried by the distal end of the elongated shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient; at least one controllably bendable section associated with elongated shaft and disposed proximal to the tool; at least one actuation element extending within the elongated shaft and along the at least one controllably bendable section and operable for actuating the tool; another actuation element configured for actuating the controllably bendable section; means for decoupling motion at the at least one controllably bendable section from the tool actuation; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit coupled to the at least one actuating element and the other actuating element of the medical instrument assembly, wherein the tool of the medical instrument is detachably coupled to the drive unit; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to move the at least one actuating element to actuate the tool and to drive the other actuating element to bend the controllably bendable section. 16. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the at least one command comprises movements at the user interface, and the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to move the at least one actuating element and the other actuating element to effect movements of the tool and controllably bendable section corresponding to the movements at the user interface. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 20. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the at least one actuating element and the other actuating element via external cabling. 