A robotic system with a common software and hardware platform for integration of a variety of modular components is provided that can be set up for a given application and reconfigured to address changing needs. Modules attach to the robotic platform with standard interfaces in order to maximize the platform's flexibility. Robotic arms also have interchangeability such as variable pitched Z-racks, powder handling or other technologies. The standard interfaces allow third party developers to develop and integrate their own custom modules. One module included with the robotic platform in accord with this invention is a module that both weighs and images a sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system, comprising: a) a frame, b) a plurality of interfaces, wherein at least two of said interfaces are substantially identical to one another, and c) a plurality of modules supported by the frame, each of the modules connecting into at least one of said interfaces, the plurality of modules having top plates that together form a work surface, wherein at least one of said modules is a weigh and image module adapted to weigh and image a sample. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said weigh and image module comprises a top plate having a door therethrough, the door being adapted to open and close. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said weigh and image module comprises a camera and one or more lights below said top plate. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein said weigh and image module comprises a balance located below said top plate, the balance having a sample holder below the door. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said weigh and image module further comprises a diffuser surrounding the sample holder and defining a sample chamber. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the diffuser is a color other than white. 7. The system of claim 4, further comprising a bottom platform supporting said camera and said balance, the bottom platform being adapted to substantially isolate said balance from vibration. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of modules comprises modules selected from the group consisting of a vortexing module, a heat and stir module, a wash station module, a reagent holder module and a heating module. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein each of said interfaces comprises a communication port and a power port. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising additional connection ports associated with the frame selected from the group consisting of USB connections and digital input/output connections. 11. A module for automated weighing and imaging of a sample, the module comprising a top plate, bottom platform and side supports connecting the top plate and bottom platform, the top plate having a door; a sample chamber located beneath the door, the sample chamber comprising a diffuser; a balance on the bottom platform; a sample holder positioned on the balance directly below the door, the sample holder defining the bottom of the sample chamber; and a digital camera with a lens focused on a sample held by the sample holder positioned on the balance directly below the door. 12. The module of claim 11, wherein the balance is attached to the bottom platform with balance attachments that substantially isolate the balance from vibration. 13. The module of claim 11 additionally comprising one or more lights for illuminating a sample in the sample chamber. 14. The module of claim 11 additionally comprising a display on the top plate for displaying balance attributes. 15. The module of claim 11, wherein the diffuser defines the sample chamber and shields the sample holder from air drafts. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein the weigh and image module comprises a balance operable to weigh a sample when the sample is on the balance, the system being adapted to image the sample while the sample is on the balance. 17. The system of claim 16 further comprising a robot arm adapted to place a sample on the balance. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the frame has an upright portion, the upright portion supporting the robot arm above the work surface. 19. The system of claim 1 wherein the top plates of the modules have edges and at least some of the edges are in abutting relation to one another. 20. A module as set forth in claim 11 wherein the module is adapted to image a sample while the sample is supported by the balance platform. 21. A robotic system comprising: a frame; a plurality of modules supported by the frame, wherein at least one of the modules is a weigh and image module adapted to weigh and image a sample; locators supported by the frame, the locators being engageable with the modules for accurately locating the modules relative to the frame; a robot supported by the frame and movable with respect to the modules; a housing supported by the frame and housing electronic equipment; and interfaces on the housing for interfacing with the electronic equipment, the modules being connected to respective interfaces; wherein the top plates form a substantially continuous work surface. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein the interfaces are arranged in side-by-side relation to one another and at least two of the interfaces are substantially identical to one another. 23. The system of claim 21 wherein the weigh and image module comprises a balance for weighing samples and the robot is adapted to place a sample on the balance. 24. The module of claim 11 wherein the balance and camera are both mounted on the bottom platform. 25. The module of claim 11 wherein the door is recessed into the top plate. 