A method and system for agent exchange-based materials handling. According to one embodiment, a method of agent exchange-based order fulfillment may include a number of agents moving along respective paths through an inventory storage area of a materials handling facility. While moving through the inventory storage area, a portion of the number of agents may respectively select one or more of a number of items stored within the inventory storage area, where each one of the selected items is specified in a corresponding customer order or materials request. The method may also include conveying the selected items to one or more corresponding processing areas of the materials handling facility in order to fulfill the corresponding customer orders. Further, at least some of the selected items may be exchanged one or more times among the agents in the course of being conveyed to corresponding processing areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: a plurality of agents moving along respective paths through an inventory storage area of a materials handling facility; while moving through said inventory storage area, a portion of said plurality of agents respectively selecting one or more of a plurality of items stored within said inventory storage area, wherein each one of said plurality of items is specified in a corresponding customer order; and multiple ones of said plurality of agents conveying said selected items to one or more corresponding processing areas of the materials handling facility in order to fulfill said corresponding customer orders, wherein during conveying of a particular one of said selected items by a particular one of said agents, said particular agent has physical possession of said particular selected item; during said conveying of said selected items, said multiple ones of said plurality of agents exchanging at least some of said selected items one or more times among said multiple ones of said plurality of agents prior to said at least some of said selected items being delivered to any processing area by any agent, wherein exchanging said particular selected item comprises transferring physical possession of said particular selected item between at least two of said agents. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising a first one of said plurality of agents exchanging a first one of said selected items with a second one of said plurality of agents, wherein in the course of exchanging said first item, said first agent receives a second one of said selected items. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein said first agent receives said second item from said second agent. 4. The method as recited in claim 2, further comprising said first agent exchanging said second item with a third one of said plurality of agents. 5. The method as recited in claim 2, further comprising said first agent conveying said second item to a corresponding order processing area. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein a given one of said plurality of agents selecting a given item corresponding to a particular customer order comprises said given agent sorting said given item into a container corresponding to said particular customer order. 7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein exchanging said at least some items among said plurality of agents comprises exchanging containers respectively including said at least some items among said plurality of agents, wherein previous sorting of said at least some items into said respective containers is preserved during said exchanging containers. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a given one of said plurality agents selecting one or more other items from an inventory receiving area; and while moving along said respective path, said given agent restocking said one or more other items within said inventory storage area. 9. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a first subset of said plurality of agents each moving along a first fixed path through said inventory storage area; and a second subset of said plurality of agents each moving along a second fixed path through said inventory storage area; wherein said first and said second paths are roughly orthogonal. 10. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising changing the state of a data model configured to represent said inventory storage area in response to a particular one of said plurality of agents physically moving a particular one of said plurality of items, wherein said data model includes a respective node corresponding to each of said plurality of items. 11. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising modeling a physical movement of a particular one of said plurality of items by a particular one of said plurality of agents as an operation of a virtual fulfillment machine on a representation of said particular item within a data model configured to represent said inventory storage area. 12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein said virtual fulfillment machine operating on said representation of said particular item comprises said virtual fulfillment machine modeling the steps of: picking said particular item from a source container; conveying said particular item to a destination container; and putting said particular item in said destination container. 13. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said respective paths of said plurality of agents are dynamically determined in response to evaluating a current state of said materials handling facility, wherein said current state includes state information associated with said plurality of agents and said customer orders. 14. A computer-accessible storage medium storing program instructions, wherein the program instructions are executable by a computer system to: instruct a plurality of agents to move along respective paths through an inventory storage area of a materials handling facility; while said agents are moving through said inventory storage area, instruct a portion of said plurality of agents respectively to select one or more of a plurality of items stored within said inventory storage area, wherein each one of said plurality of items is specified in a corresponding customer order; and instruct said agents to convey said selected items to one or more corresponding processing areas of the materials handling facility in order to fulfill said corresponding customer orders, wherein to instruct a particular one of said agents to convey a particular one of said selected items, the program instructions are further executable to instruct said particular agent to take or maintain physical possession of said particular selected item during conveyance of said particular item by said particular agent; wherein during conveyance of said selected items, the program instructions are further executable to instruct multiple ones of said plurality of agents to exchange at least some of said selected items one or more times among said multiple ones of said plurality of agents prior to said at least some of said selected items being delivered to any processing area by any agent, wherein to instruct at least two of said agents to exchange said particular selected item, the program instructions are further executable to instruct said at least two of said agents to transfer physical possession of said particular selected item between said at least two of said agents. 15. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further executable to instruct a first one of said plurality of agents to exchange a first one of said selected items with a second one of said plurality of agents, wherein in the course of exchanging said first item, said first agent receives a second one of said selected items. 16. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein said first agent receives said second item from said second agent. 17. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable to instruct said first agent to exchange said second item with a third one of said plurality of agents. 18. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable to instruct said first agent to convey said second item to a corresponding order processing area. 19. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein instructing a given one of said plurality of agents to select a given item corresponding to a particular customer order comprises instructing said given agent to sort said given item into a container corresponding to said particular customer order. 20. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 19, wherein instructing that said at least some items be exchanged among said plurality of agents comprises instructing that containers respectively including said at least some items be exchanged among said plurality of agents, wherein previous sorting of said at least some items into said respective containers is preserved during said exchanging containers. 21. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further executable to: instruct a given one of said plurality agents to select one or more other items from an inventory receiving area; and while said given agent is moving along said respective path, instruct said given agent to restock said one or more other items within said inventory storage area. 22. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further executable to: instruct a first subset of said plurality of agents to each move along a first fixed path through said inventory storage area; and instruct a second subset of said plurality of agents to each move along a second fixed path through said inventory storage area; wherein said first and said second paths are roughly orthogonal. 23. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further executable to change the state of a data model configured to represent said inventory storage area in response to a particular one of said plurality of agents physically moving a particular one of said plurality of items, wherein said data model includes a respective node corresponding to each of said plurality of items. 24. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further executable to model a physical movement of a particular one of said plurality of items by a particular one of said plurality of agents as an operation of a virtual fulfillment machine on a representation of said particular item within a data model configured to represent said inventory storage area. 25. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 24, wherein modeling said operation of said virtual fulfillment machine on said representation of said particular item comprises modeling the steps of: picking said particular item from a source container; conveying said particular item to a destination container; and putting said particular item in said destination container. 26. The computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further executable to dynamically determine said respective paths of said plurality of agents in response to evaluating a current state of said materials handling facility, wherein said current state includes state information associated with said plurality of agents and said customer orders. 27. A system, comprising: a system memory; and a processor coupled to said system memory, wherein said processor is configured to execute instructions, and wherein said instructions are configured to: instruct a plurality of agents to move along respective paths through an inventory storage area of a materials handling facility; while said agents are moving through said inventory storage area, instruct a portion of said plurality of agents respectively to select one or more of a plurality of items stored within said inventory storage area, wherein each one of said plurality of items is specified in a corresponding customer order; and instruct said agents to convey said selected items to one or more corresponding processing areas of the materials handling facility in order to fulfill said corresponding customer orders, wherein to instruct a particular one of said agents to convey a particular one of said selected items, the instructions are further configured to: select a particular path to a particular processing area for said particular selected item from a set of paths comprising a shorter-latency path and a longer-latency path, wherein the particular path is selected dependent upon a deadline by which the particular selected item is to arrive at the particular processing area, and wherein the shorter-latency path specifies fewer exchanges of said particular item among agents than the longer-latency path; and instruct said particular agent to take or maintain physical possession of said particular selected item during conveyance of said particular item by said particular agent; wherein during conveyance of said selected items, the instructions are further configured to instruct multiple ones of said plurality of agents to exchange at least some of said selected items one or more times among said multiple ones of said plurality of agents prior to said at least some of said selected items being delivered to any processing area by any agent, wherein to instruct at least two of said agents to exchange said particular selected item, the instructions are further configured to instruct said at least two of said agents to transfer physical possession of said particular selected item between said at least two of said agents. 28. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein the program instructions are further executable to instruct a first one of said plurality of agents to exchange a first one of said selected items with a second one of said plurality of agents, wherein in the course of exchanging said first item, said first agent receives a second one of said selected items. 29. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein said first agent receives said second item from said second agent. 30. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein the program instructions are further executable to instruct said first agent to exchange said second item with a third one of said plurality of agents. 31. The system as recited in claim 28, wherein the program instructions are further executable to instruct said first agent to convey said second item to a corresponding order processing area. 32. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein instructing a given one of said plurality of agents to select a given item corresponding to a particular customer order comprises instructing said given agent to sort said given item into a container corresponding to said particular customer order. 33. The system as recited in claim 32, wherein instructing that said at least some items be exchanged among said plurality of agents comprises instructing that containers respectively including said at least some items be exchanged among said plurality of agents, wherein previous sorting of said at least some items into said respective containers is preserved during said exchanging containers. 34. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein the program instructions are further executable to: instruct a given one of said plurality agents to select one or more other items from an inventory receiving area; and while said given agent is moving along said respective path, instruct said given agent to restock said one or more other items within said inventory storage area. 35. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein the program instructions are further executable to: instruct a first subset of said plurality of agents to each move along a first fixed path through said inventory storage area; and instruct a second subset of said plurality of agents to each move along a second fixed path through said inventory storage area; wherein said first and said second paths are roughly orthogonal. 36. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein the program instructions are further executable to change the state of a data model configured to represent said inventory storage area in response to a particular one of said plurality of agents physically moving a particular one of said plurality of items, wherein said data model includes a respective node corresponding to each of said plurality of items. 37. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein the program instructions are further executable to model a physical movement of a particular one of said plurality of items by a particular one of said plurality of agents as an operation of a virtual fulfillment machine on a representation of said particular item within a data model configured to represent said inventory storage area. 38. The system as recited in claim 37, wherein modeling said operation of said virtual fulfillment machine on said representation of said particular item comprises modeling the steps of: picking said particular item from a source container; conveying said particular item to a destination container; and putting said particular item in said destination container. 39. The system as recited in claim 27, wherein the program instructions are further executable to dynamically determine said respective paths of said plurality of agents in response to evaluating a current state of said materials handling facility, wherein said current state includes state information associated with said plurality of agents and said customer orders. 