A bio-inspired device is provided designed to scale smooth vertical surfaces using anisotropic frictional materials. The device draws its inspiration from geckos and other climbing lizards and employs similar compliance and force control strategies to climb (or hang onto) smooth vertical surfaces including glass, tile and plastic panels. Foremost among the design features embodied in the device are multiple levels of compliance, at length scales ranging from centimeters to micrometers, to allow the device to conform to surfaces and maintain large real areas of contact so that adhesive forces can support it. Structures within the feet ensure even stress distributions over each toe and facilitate engagement and disengagement of the adhesive materials. A force control strategy works in conjunction with the anisotropic adhesive materials to obtain sufficient levels of friction and adhesion for climbing with low attachment and detachment forces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for directional and distributed control of adhesive forces, comprising: (a) a plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features making an acute angle with respect to a reference plane to define a hair direction, wherein each of said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features further comprises a tip angle with respect to said reference plane and with the hair tip tapered asymmetrically and in the direction of said hair direction; (b) a backing layer with embedded therein a flexible and inextensible fiber, said backing layer affixed to said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features; and (c) a plurality of segments affixed to said backing layer on the side of said backing layer opposite to said plurality of anisotropic hair features, wherein the segment thickness increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction, and wherein said backing layer hinges at gaps between said plurality of segments. 2. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein the thickness of said backing layer increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. 3. The device as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a cable through and near the surface of said plurality of segments. 4. The device as set forth in claim 3, further comprising a push-pull actuator to push-pull said cable. 5. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein the material of said backing layer is softer than the material of said plurality of segments. 6. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said acute angle is larger than 45 degrees and smaller than 90 degrees. 7. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said flexible and inextensible fiber is a fiber mesh, a fabric, a synthetic fiber or a synthetic cloth fiber. 8. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said device is a hanging device, a picture hanger, a suspension mechanism, a finger, a robot finger, a toe or a robot toe. 9. A robotic device, comprising: (a) a set of limbs, wherein each limb having a set of toes, wherein each of said toes comprises: (i) a plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features making an acute angle with respect to a reference plane to define a hair direction, wherein each of said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features further comprises a tip angle with respect to said reference plane, (ii) a backing layer with embedded therein a flexible and inextensible fiber, said backing layer affixed to said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features, (iii) a plurality of segments affixed to said backing layer on the side of said backing layer opposite to said plurality of anisotropic hair features, and (iv) a cable through and near the surface of said plurality of segments; and (b) an actuator to control said cables of said toes. 10. The robotic device as set forth in claim 9, wherein the thickness of said backing layer of each of said toes increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. 11. The robotic device as set forth in claim 9, wherein the segment thickness increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. 12. The robotic device as set forth in claim 9, wherein said backing layer hinges at gaps between said plurality of segments. 13. The robotic device as set forth in claim 9, wherein the material of said backing layer is softer than the material of said plurality of segments. 14. The robotic device as set forth in claim 9, wherein said acute angle is larger than 45 degrees and smaller than 90 degrees. 15. A device for directional and distributed control of adhesive forces, comprising: (a) a plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features making an acute angle with respect to a reference plane to define a hair direction; (b) a backing layer with embedded therein a flexible and inextensible fiber, said backing layer affixed to said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features; (c) a plurality of segments affixed to said backing layer on the side of said backing layer opposite to said plurality of anisotropic hair features, and wherein the segment thickness increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. (d) a cable through and near the surface of said plurality of segments; and (e) a push-pull actuator to push-pull said cable. 16. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein the thickness of said backing layer increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. 17. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein said backing layer hinges at gaps between said plurality of segments. 18. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein the material of said backing layer is softer than the material of said plurality of segments. 19. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein said acute angle is larger than 45 degrees and smaller than 90 degrees. 20. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein each of said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features further comprises a tip angle with respect to said reference plane and with the hair tip tapered asymmetrically and in the direction of said hair direction. 21. The device as set forth in claim 20, wherein said tip angle is larger than 0 degrees and smaller than said acute angle. 22. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein said flexible and inextensible fiber is a fiber mesh, a fabric, a synthetic fiber or a synthetic cloth fiber. 23. The device as set forth in claim 15, wherein said device is a hanging device, a picture hanger, a suspension mechanism, a finger, a robot finger, a toe or a robot toe. 24. A robotic device, comprising: (a) a set of limbs, wherein each limb having a set of toes, wherein each of said toes comprises: (i) a plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features making an acute angle with respect to a reference plane to define a hair direction, (ii) a backing layer with embedded therein a flexible and inextensible fiber, said backing layer affixed to said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features, (iii) a plurality of segments affixed to said backing layer on the side of said backing layer opposite to said plurality of anisotropic hair features, and (iiii) a cable through and near the surface of said plurality of segments; and (b) an actuator to control said cables of said toes. 25. The robotic device as set forth in claim 24, wherein the thickness of said backing layer of each of said toes increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. 26. The robotic device as set forth in claim 25, wherein the segment thickness increases height in a direction opposite to said hair direction. 27. The robotic device as set forth in claim 25, wherein said backing layer hinges at gaps between said plurality of segments. 28. The robotic device as set forth in claim 25, wherein the material of said backing layer is softer than the material of said plurality of segments. 29. The robotic device as set forth in claim 25, wherein each of said plurality of parallel anisotropic hair features further comprises a tip angle with respect to said reference plane and with the tip tapered asymmetrically and in the direction of said hair direction. 30. The robotic device as set forth in claim 29, wherein said tip angle is larger than 0 degrees and smaller than said acute angle. 31. The robotic device as set forth in claim 25, wherein said acute angle is larger than 45 degrees and smaller than 90 degrees. 