A motor control amplifier for position feedback control is provided utilizing the inherent inductor and/or resistor dynamics of the motor. The motor control amplifier applies a voltage to the motor equivalent to the electrical motor resistance multiplied by the current of the motor, canceling out the electrical motor resistance, and thereby providing position feedback control through motor inductance. A command term/voltage could be added to make the position feedback control relative to a setpoint. Further, a motor control amplifier for feedback control to arbitrary dynamics is provided. The motor amplifier applies a voltage proportional to a wave command signal. The motor amplifier has a sensing component to provide a wave return signal to construct a wave transformer from the electrical motor resistance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motor control amplifier for position feedback control, comprising: (a) a motor; and (b) an amplifier electrically coupled to said motor, wherein said amplifier applies a voltage to said motor, wherein said applied voltage is equivalent to the electrical resistance of said motor multiplied by the current of said motor, wherein said amplifier is characterized by canceling out the electrical resistance of said motor and thereby providing said position feedback control through the inductance of said motor. 2. The motor control amplifier as set forth in claim 1, wherein said applied voltage is equivalent to said electrical resistance of said motor multiplied by said current of said motor plus a command term or voltage, wherein said amplifier is characterized by canceling out the electrical resistance of said motor and thereby providing said position feedback control relative to a setpoint through the inductance of said motor. 3. The motor control amplifier as set forth in claim 1, wherein said amplifier is implemented as an analog circuit. 4. A method of position feedback control, comprising: electrically coupling an amplifier to a motor, wherein said amplifier applies a voltage to said motor, wherein said applied voltage is equivalent to the electrical resistance of said motor multiplied by the current of said motor, wherein said amplifier is characterized by canceling out the electrical resistance of said motor and thereby providing said position feedback control through the inductance of said motor. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said applied voltage is equivalent to said electrical resistance of said motor multiplied by said current of said motor plus a command term or voltage, wherein said amplifier is characterized by canceling out the electrical resistance of said motor and thereby providing said position feedback control relative to a setpoint through the inductance of said motor. 6. The method as set forth in claim 4, further comprising implementing said amplifier as an analog circuit. 7. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said electrical resistance of said motor provides a wave transformation for haptic rendering. 