The invention relates to a device and a method for analyzing the interaction between one or more molecular species the method comprising the steps of creating streams of digital data, transferring the stream of digital data through a substrate, manipulating the molecular structure of the substrate by adding or subtracting molecules or groups of molecules to be examined to or from the substrate, receiving the streams of digital data transferred through the substrate, decoding the identity of an examined molecule or group of molecules interacting with the substrate by deciphering how the molecules affinity to another molecule or group of molecules or molecular sensor or group of molecular sensors alters the stream of digital data. The invention relates further to a method for identifying molecular species, and to a device for identifying molecular species and to a substrate for analyzing the interaction and for identifying molecular species.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for identifying molecular species, said method comprising the steps of creating at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals, transferring the at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals through a substrate; allowing interaction of molecules or groups of molecules with the substrate; receiving the streams of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals transferred through the substrate; and decoding the identity of an examined molecule or group of molecules interacting with the substrate according to the alteration of the stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals obtained during the transmission of the at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals through the substrate. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals is altered during its transfer through the substrate according to a mathematical or programmable function. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of creating includes generating a digitally encoded photon flux. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the photon flux includes a beam or group of beams consisting of polarized, non-polar, monochromatic or broad banned light. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of creating includes generating an array of molecules that can operate in a binary manner. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of creating includes generating digital electronic signals by gating electron flow over a two or a three dimensional space. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of manipulating includes adding or subtracting molecules or groups of molecules. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the manipulating includes use of heat, light, gravity, centripetal action, and/or pressure. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the manipulating is performed on either a two-dimensional surface or a three-dimensional element. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein decoding the identity of an examined molecule or group of molecules interacting with the substrate includes detecting an alteration in the stream of binary data resulting from a change on the substrate correlated with a surface bound receptor. 11. A device for identifying molecular species, said device comprising creating means that release at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals, transferring means that transfer the at least one stream of binary data carried by binary electrical, molecular or light signals through a substrate; manipulating means for manipulating the molecular structure of the substrate by adding or subtracting molecules or groups of molecules to be examined to or from the substrate; receiving means for receiving the at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals transferred through the substrate; and decoding means for decoding the identity of an examined molecule or group of molecules interacting with the substrate according to the alternation of the at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals obtainable during the transmission of the at least one stream of binary data carried by electrical, molecular or light signals through the substrate. 12. The device according to claim 11, wherein the creating means include an optical system that generates a digitally encoded photon flux. 13. The device according to claim 12, wherein the photon flux includes a beam or group of beams consisting of polarized, non-polar, monochromatic or broad banned light. 14. The device according to claim 12, wherein the creating means include a microelectronic system that generates an array of molecules that can operate in a binary manner. 15. The device according to claim 12, wherein the creating means include a microelectronic component that generates digital electronic signals by gating electron flow over a three dimensional space. 16. The device according to claim 15, wherein the microelectronic component includes an entity that either stores, processes, transfers or creates electron flow. 17. The device according to claim 11, wherein the manipulating means includes an element that adds or subtracts a molecular entity. 18. The device according to claim 11, wherein the manipulating includes use of heat, light, gravity, centripetal action, and/or pressure. 19. The device according to claim 11, wherein the manipulating is performed on either a two-dimensional surface or a three-dimensional element. 20. The device of claim 11, wherein the decoding means for decoding the identity of an examined molecule or group of molecules interacting with the substrate includes means for detecting an alteration in the at least one stream of binary resulting from a change on the substrate correlated with a surface bound receptor. 