A storage unit for biological samples has a horizontal footprint and multiple storage compartments separated by intermediate walls and enclosed by a peripheral frame. The storage compartments have first and second openings and are tailored to the shape of a biopsy cassette or a glass slide and have a retention mechanism preventing the essentially vertical cassettes or slides in the storage compartments through the first opening and/or the second opening from falling out through the first opening and/or the second opening. A transfer system allows at least two storage units or at least one storage unit and one collection unit to be situated one above the other in register and displaced in relation to one another. The transfer system has a manipulator by which a biopsy cassette or a glass slide may be pushed from one storage unit to another, or into the collection unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage unit (1) for biological samples, having an essentially horizontal main footprint (2) and multiple storage compartments (3), which are at least partially separated from one another by intermediate walls (4) and are enclosed by a peripheral frame (5), the intermediate walls (4) and the peripheral frame (5) being part of the storage unit (1) and being situated essentially perpendicularly to the main footprint (2), and the storage compartments (3) having both a first opening (6) and also a second opening (7), wherein the storage compartments (3) are tailored to the shape of a biopsy cassette (8) or to the shape of a glass slide (30), so that a biopsy cassette (8) or a glass slide (30) is insertable into a storage compartment (3) through the first opening (6) and the second opening (7), and wherein the storage compartments (3) comprise retention means (9), which prevent the essentially vertically standing biopsy cassettes (8) or glass slides (30), from falling out through the first opening (6) as well as from falling out through the second opening (7), and said retention means (9) being implemented as keeping open the first opening (6) and the second opening (7). 2. The storage unit (1) according to claim 1, wherein the storage compartments (3) have an essentially rectangular cross-section and are each implemented to receive, in relation to the main footprint, one biopsy cassette (8) standing (2) on a front face (14) or one glass slide (30) standing on a longitudinal edge (31), for biological samples. 3. The storage unit (1) according to claim 1, wherein the storage compartments (3) have an essentially rectangular cross-section and are each implemented to receive, in relation to the main footprint (2), one biopsy cassette (8) lying on a support surface (12) or one glass slide (30) lying on a surface (32), for biological samples. 4. The storage unit (1) according to claim 1, wherein the retention means (9) are selected from a group, which comprises single-sided and double-sided lamellae (10) and single-sided and double-sided cushions (11). 5. The storage unit (1) according to claim 4, which comprises lamellae (10), running essentially perpendicularly in relation to the main footprint (2) that are implemented to engage using friction lock on the support surfaces (12) or other vertical surfaces (13) of a biopsy cassette (8) inserted into a storage compartment (3). 6. The storage unit (1) according to claim 4, which comprises lamellae (10) running essentially perpendicularly in relation to the main footprint (2) that are implemented to engage using friction lock on surfaces (32) of a glass slide (30) inserted into a storage compartment (3). 7. The storage unit (1) according to claim 4, which comprises lamellae (10) running essentially parallel in relation to the main footprint (2) that are implemented for surfaces (32) of a glass slide (30) inserted into a storage compartment (3) to partially rest on. 8. The storage unit (1) according to claim 4, which comprises cushions (11) that are implemented to engage using friction lock on the support surfaces (12) or other vertical surfaces (13) of a biopsy cassette (8) inserted into a storage compartment (3). 9. The storage unit (1) according to claim 8, wherein the cushions (11) extend having essentially identical effective cross-section over essentially the entire height of the storage compartments (3). 10. The storage unit (1) according to claim 8, wherein the cushions (11) are implemented as single-sided or double-sided and are situated in a row of storage compartments (3) on a longitudinal axis (16) running centrally and transversely to these storage compartments (3). 11. The storage unit (1) according to claim 8, wherein the cushions (11) are implemented as single-sided or double-sided and are situated in a row of storage compartments (3) on a transverse axis (15) running centrally and longitudinally to these storage compartments (3). 12. The storage unit (1) according to claim 10, wherein the double-sided cushions (11) of a row of storage compartments (3) are situated on two longitudinal axes (16) running transversely to these storage compartments (3). 13. The storage unit (1) according to claim 1, which comprises a middle wall (18) that comprises guide lamellae (19) running perpendicularly in relation to the main footprint (2), which project into storage compartments (3) situated on both sides of the middle wall (18). 14. The storage unit (1) according to claim 1, the main footprint (2) of which at least approximately corresponding to the SBS standard footprint of a standard microplate. 15. The storage unit (1) according to claim 1, which comprises at least one secondary footprint (20) that encloses an angle of at least approximately 90.degree. together with the main footprint (2). 16. A transfer system (21) that comprises a device (22), using which at least two storage units (1) or at least one storage unit (1) according to claim 1 and one collection unit may be situated one above the other in register and displaced in relation to one another, which transfer system (21) additionally comprises a manipulator (23), using which a biopsy cassette (8) inserted into an individual storage compartment (3) or a glass slide (30) inserted into an individual storage compartment (3) may be pushed from one storage unit (1) into the other storage unit (1) or into the collection unit. 17. The transfer system (21) according to claim 16, wherein the device (22) is implemented for situating the at least two storage units (1) or at least one storage unit (1) and one collection unit in essentially horizontal planes lying one above the other, and this manipulator (23) is implemented for essentially vertically pushing a biopsy cassette (8) or a glass slide (30) toward the main footprint (2) or away therefrom. 18. The transfer system (21) according to claim 16, wherein the device (22) is implemented for situating the at least two storage units (1) or at least one storage unit (1) and one collection unit in essentially vertical planes lying one above the other, and this manipulator (23) is implemented for essentially horizontally pushing a biopsy cassette (8) or a glass slide (30) toward the main footprint (2) or away therefrom. 19. The transfer system (21) according to claim 18, having a device (22), wherein the transfer system comprises a warehouse unit (25) for storing multiple storage units (1) according to claim 1 and a robot (26), using which such storage units (1) may be removed from the warehouse unit (25) and/or stored in this warehouse unit (25). 20. The transfer system (21) according to claim 19, wherein the storage unit (25) comprises an array of retainers (27) having bearing surfaces (17), the bearing surfaces (17) of these retainers being implemented to be impinged by the main footprint (2) or by a secondary footprint (20) of a storage unit (1). 21. The transfer system (21) according to claim 16, characterized in that the storage unit (1) and the biopsy cassettes (8) or glass slides (30) comprise at least one identifier (24), which is selected from RFID tags and barcodes. 22. A method for using biopsy cassettes (8) or glass slides (30) situated in individual storage compartments (3) of storage units (1) for biological samples for storing and providing a large number of such biological samples, each storage unit (1) comprising an essentially horizontal main footprint (2) and multiple storage compartments (3), which are at least partially separated from one another by intermediate walls (4) and are enclosed by a peripheral frame (5), the intermediate walls (4) and the peripheral frame (5) being situated essentially perpendicularly to the main footprint (2), and these storage compartments (3) having both a first opening (6) and also a second opening (7), the method comprising: tailoring the storage compartments (3) to the shape of biopsy cassettes (8) or to the shape of glass slides (30), and inserting one biopsy cassette (8) or one glass slide (30) through the first opening (6) or the second opening (7) into such a storage compartment (3), which comprises retention means (9) that prevent the inserted biopsy cassette (8) or the inserted glass slide (30), in its essentially vertically standing storage position, from falling out of the first opening (6) and/or the second opening (7). 23. The method according to claim 22, the storage units (1) having an SBS standard footprint of a standard microplate, wherein one or more of these biopsy cassettes (8) or glass slides (30) is/are robotically removed from the corresponding storage compartments (3) of a first storage unit (1) and inserted into selected storage compartments (3) of a second storage unit (1) or a collection unit. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein two of the storage units (1) are situated one above the other in register and displaced in relation to one another using a device (22) of a transfer system (21), biopsy cassettes (8) or glass slides (30) being pushed vertically from the upper storage unit (1) into the storage unit (1) or collection unit lying underneath using a manipulator (23) of this transfer system (21). 