A treadmill having a track assembly that allows a user to navigate in any arbitrary direction. A movable user support has a plurality of rotatable members that rotate about axes normal to the direction of movement of the user support. Separate power drive mechanism concurrently move the user support and rotate the members to omni-directional user movement. A control for the power driven mechanism is responsive to the directional orientation of the user on the user support to cause the user support to operate in the direction of the orientation of the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A track assembly for an omni-directional treadmill comprising: a plurality of transverse endless belts, transverse supports for the transverse endless belts and wherein the endless belts are located in adjacent side-by-side positions, said plurality of transverse endless belts having a combined user surface for supporting a user walking or running thereon, drive couplings connecting adjacent transverse endless belts whereby all of the transverse belts are simultaneously moved in the same selective transverse direction which is transverse to a longitudinal direction of the track assembly, a first drive mechanism operable to selectively move all of the transverse belts in the same transverse direction, said first drive mechanism includes a plurality of omni-wheels located in driving engagement with the transverse belts operable to move all the transverse belts in selective transverse directions, and a drive device for rotating the omni-wheels about a longitudinal axis thereby moving the transverse belts in the selected transverse direction, endless longitudinal loop members connected to the transverse supports for the transverse endless belts, longitudinal rails supporting the endless longitudinal loop members and transverse supports for movement in selective longitudinal directions, a second drive mechanism operable to move the loop members in selective longitudinal directions, and a control responsive to the user on the user surface to control the operation of the first and second drive mechanisms thereby controlling the omni-directional user movement to conform with the directional orientation of the user on the user surface. 2. The track assembly of claim 1 wherein: the transverse supports for each transverse belt includes end members engageable with the rails to support the end members and connectors securing the end members to the loop members. 3. The track assembly of claim 2 wherein: the connectors are pairs of pins securing the end members to the loop members. 4. The track assembly of claim 2 wherein: the endless longitudinal loop members are endless link chains and a pair of pins securing the chains to the end members. 5. The track assembly of claim 1 wherein: the drive couplings comprise U-joints having spline sections to allow for relative movements between adjacent transverse supports for the transverse belts at opposite longitudinal ends of the track assembly. 6. The track assembly of claim 1 wherein: the drive couplings comprise CV joints for allowing relative movements between adjacent transverse supports for the transverse belts at opposite longitudinal ends of the track assembly. 7. The track assembly of claim 1 wherein: the drive couplings comprise flexible coils for allowing relative movements between adjacent transverse supports for the transverse belts at opposite longitudinal ends of the track assembly. 8. The track assembly of claim 1 wherein: each omni-wheel includes circumferentially spaced rotatable barrels. 9. The track assembly of claim 1 including: a longitudinal shaft drivably connected to the omni-wheels and said drive device being connected to the shaft to rotate the shaft thereby rotate the omni-wheels and move the transverse belts. 10. The track assembly of claim 1 wherein: the first drive mechanisms includes an electric motor operatively connected to a transverse belt to drive the belt in selective transverse directions. 11. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with a harness apparatus attachable to a user on the active surface to provide functions, such as force control, position control, haptic wholebody feedback, free-body flight and safety. 12. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with an immersive simulation apparatus to provide haptic feedback. 13. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with a rigid frame for physical grounding and a user's rotary frame. 14. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with an immersive simulation apparatus to provide haptic feedback and a user's living environment. 15. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with a harness apparatus attachable to a user, and a four bar linkage attaching the harness apparatus to an actuator assembly and a rigid canopy bar fastened to the actuator assembly operable to retain the user generally in the center of the track assembly. 16. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with virtual reality device responsive to movements of the user on the user surface, said virtual reality device including a visual display mountable on the user's head for displaying visual images. 17. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with a remote sensing device for extracting sensory information from a real remote source and conveying it to the senses of the user. 18. The track assembly of claim 1 in combination with a user harness apparatus operable to diagnose and rehabilitate individuals with neurological and spinal deficits. 19. An apparatus for allowing a user to move in any arbitrary direction comprising: a track assembly having a frame with longitudinal rails, a plurality of transverse endless belts, supports for the transverse endless belts, said supports locating the endless belts in side-by-side positions, said plurality of transverse endless belts having a combined upper user surface for supporting a user, drive couplings connecting opposite ends of adjacent transverse endless belts whereby all of the transverse belts are simultaneously moved at the same speed in the same selective transverse direction, said transverse direction being transverse to the longitudinal direction of the track assembly, a first drive mechanism operable to move all of the transverse belts in the same transverse direction, said first drive mechanism including a plurality of omni-wheels located in driving engagement with the transverse belts operable to move all of the transverse belts in selective transverse directions, and a drive device for rotating the omni-wheels about a longitudinal axis thereby simultaneously moving the transverse belts in the transverse direction, said supports having opposite end members supported on the rails for longitudinal movement along the rails, endless longitudinal link chains located adjacent to the end members, connectors attaching the chains to the end members, a second drive mechanism operable to move the link chains in selective longitudinal directions, and a control associated with a user on the user surface to control the operation of the first and second drive mechanisms. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein: the connectors are pairs of pins securing the chains to the end members. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein: the drive couplings comprise U-joints having spline sections to allow for relative movements between adjacent supports for the transverse belts at opposite longitudinal ends of the track assembly. 22. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein: the drive couplings comprise CV joints for allowing relative movements between adjacent supports for the transverse belts at opposite longitudinal ends of the track assembly. 23. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein: the drive couplings comprise flexible coils for allowing relative movements between adjacent supports for the transverse belts at opposite longitudinal ends of the track assembly. 24. The track assembly of claim 19 wherein: each omni-wheel includes circumferentially spaced rotatable barrels. 25. The apparatus of claim 19 including: a longitudinal shaft drivably connected to the omni-wheels and said drive device being connected to the shaft to rotate the shaft thereby rotate the omni-wheels and move the transverse belts. 26. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein: the first drive mechanisms includes an electric motor operatively connected to a transverse belt to drive the belt in selective transverse directions. 27. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with a harness apparatus attachable to a user on the active surface to provide functions, such as force control, position control, haptic wholebody feedback, free-body flight and safety. 28. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with an immersive simulation apparatus to provide haptic feedback. 29. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with a rigid frame for physical grounding and a user's rotary frame. 30. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with an immersive simulation apparatus to provide haptic feedback and a user's living environment. 31. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with a harness apparatus attachable to a user, and a four bar linkage attaching the harness apparatus to an actuator assembly and a rigid canopy bar fastened to the actuator assembly operable to retain the user generally in the center of the track assembly. 32. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with virtual reality device responsive to movements of the user on the user surface, said virtual reality device including a visual display mountable on the user's head for displaying visual images. 33. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with a remote sensing device for extracting sensory information from a real remote source and conveying it to the senses of the user. 34. The apparatus of claim 19 in combination with a user harness apparatus operable to diagnose and rehabilitate individuals with neurological and spinal deficits. 