An automated analyzer is configured to receive and analyze samples provided to the automated analyzer in primary sample containers. The automated analyzer comprises a sample retention unit, at least one transport device, and at least one aspiration device. The sample retention unit is configured to receive and retain a plurality of sample retention vessels. The sample retention unit may comprise a sample storage unit, an analytic unit, or other processing unit within the automated analyzer that retains a sample for some purpose. The transport device is configured to receive a first primary sample container containing a first sample and deliver the first primary sample container to the sample retention unit as one of the plurality of sample retention vessels. The aspiration device is configured to receive a second sample from a second primary sample container and deliver the second sample into one of the plurality of sample retention vessels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing samples for analysis, using an automated analyzer including a transfer station, a sample presentation unit coupled to the transfer station and configured to receive a plurality of primary sample containers, and a sample storage unit and an analytic unit coupled to the transfer station and configured to receive a plurality of sample retention vessels, wherein the analytic unit is configured to receive and analyze samples, the method comprising: a) loading the plurality of primary sample containers into a presentation section of the sample presentation unit, each of the plurality of primary sample containers containing a sample, and then transferring the plurality of primary sample containers to the transfer station from the presentation section; b) transferring a first primary sample container of the plurality of primary sample containers at the transfer station into the sample storage unit or the analytic unit, and if the first primary sample container is transferred to the sample storage unit, then the first primary sample container is thereafter transferred to the analytic unit; c) aliquoting the sample from a second primary sample container of the plurality of primary sample containers at the transfer station into at least one of the plurality of sample retention vessels in the sample storage unit or the analytic unit, and if the sample is aliquoted into the at least one of the plurality of sample retention vessels in the sample storage unit, the at least one of the plurality of sample retention vessels is thereafter sent to the analytic unit; and d) processing the sample in the first primary sample container and the sample aliquoted from the second primary sample container. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein processing the sample in the first primary sample container comprises removing an aliquot of the sample in the first primary sample container. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein processing the sample from the second primary sample container comprises analyzing the sample from the second primary sample container. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein loading the plurality of primary sample containers comprises manually loading the plurality of primary sample containers into the presentation section of the sample presentation unit and automatically delivering the plurality of primary sample containers to the transfer station. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein loading the plurality of primary sample containers comprises receiving at least some of the plurality of primary sample containers from a laboratory instrument housed separate from the automated analyzer. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the laboratory instrument comprises a closed tube aliquotter. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein loading the plurality of primary sample containers comprises delivering a third primary sample container of the plurality of primary sample containers from the automated analyzer to the closed tube aliquotter and receiving the at least some of the plurality of primary sample containers from the closed tube aliquotter, each of the at least some of the plurality of primary sample containers comprising an aliquot of the sample in the third primary sample container. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the automated analyzer comprises: a transport device configured to transfer the first primary sample container to the sample storage unit; and an aspiration device configured to transfer the sample from the second primary sample container into the at least one of the plurality of sample retention vessels in the sample storage unit. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the transport device is a first transport device and wherein the automated analyzer comprises a second transport device separated from the transfer station and is configured to receive primary sample containers from the first transport device. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the transport device is a first transport device and wherein the automated analyzer comprises a second transport device configured to deliver primary sample containers to the first transport device. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the second transport device is further configured to deliver primary sample containers from a laboratory instrument housed separate from the automated analyzer. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the second transport device is further configured to receive primary sample containers from the laboratory instrument housed separate from the automated analyzer. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein the transport device is part of a gantry robot. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the analytic unit includes at least one of an incubator station, a wash station, and a read station. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the analytic unit comprises an immunoassay system. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the automated analyzer is configured to process differently sized and shaped containers. 