A robotic die sorter having pick and place arm assemblies and a multi-camera optical inspection system is disclosed. A pick arm of the pick arm assembly picks a die from a semiconductor wafer, and a place arm of the place arm assembly receives the die from the pick arm and places same in a reel of pocketed tape. After picking, the pick arm and the place arm are rotated into facing arrangement, whereupon the die is transferred to the place head of the place arm and a camera of the optical inspection system to detect defects in the die. After inspection, the place arm rotates toward the pocketed tape and places the die into the pocketed tape. Additional cameras of the optical inspection system allow for calibration of the pick and place arms, as well as monitoring of the die transfer process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic die sorter, comprising a picking mechanism moveable between a picking location and a transfer location, said picking mechanism including first and second drive means for driving said picking mechanism, said first and second drive means coupled together by a first linkage and a first arm, said first and second drive means operating together to move said picking mechanism in horizontal and vertical directions; a placing mechanism moveable between said transfer location and a placement location, said placing mechanism including third and fourth drive means for driving said placing mechanism, said third and fourth drive means coupled together by a second linkage and a second arm, said third and fourth drive means operating together to move said placing mechanism in horizontal and vertical directions; first vacuum means for creating a suction sufficient to maintain a die on said picking mechanism as said picking mechanism moves from said picking location to said transfer location; and second vacuum means for creating a suction sufficient to transfer the die from said picking mechanism to said placing mechanism when said picking and placing mechanisms are positioned at said transfer location and to maintain the die on said placing mechanism as said placing mechanism moves from said transfer location to said placement location. 2. The robotic die sorter of claim 1, wherein said picking mechanism further includes a first eccentric drive mounted between said first drive means and said first linkage and a second eccentric drive mounted between said second drive means and said first arm. 3. The robotic die sorter of claim 2, wherein said picking mechanism further includes fifth drive means for rotating said picking mechanism. 4. The robotic die sorter of claim 1, wherein said placing mechanism further includes a first eccentric drive mounted between said third drive means and said second linkage and a second eccentric drive mounted between said fourth drive means and said second arm. 5. The robotic die sorter of claim 4, wherein said placing mechanism further includes fifth drive means for rotating said placing mechanism. 6. The robotic die sorter of claim 1, further including a camera operatively associated with said picking and placing mechanisms, said camera being operable to inspect said placing mechanism for proper alignment when said placing mechanism is positioned at said transfer location. 7. The robotic die sorter of claim 6, wherein said camera is operable to inspect said die at said transfer location after said die has been transferred from said picking mechanism to said placing mechanism. 8. A robotic die sorter, comprising a picking mechanism moveable between a picking location and a transfer location, said picking mechanism including first and second drive means for driving said picking mechanism, said first and second drive means coupled together by a first linkage and a first arm, said first and second drive means operating together to move said picking mechanism in horizontal and vertical directions; a placing mechanism moveable between said transfer location and a placement location, said placing mechanism including third and fourth drive means for driving said placing mechanism, said third and fourth drive means coupled together by a second linkage and a second arm, said third and fourth drive means operating together to move said placing mechanism in horizontal and vertical directions; first vacuum means for creating a suction sufficient to maintain a die on said picking mechanism as said picking mechanism moves from said picking location to said transfer location; second vacuum means for creating a suction sufficient to transfer the die from said picking mechanism to said placing mechanism when said picking and placing mechanisms are positioned at said transfer location and to maintain the die on said placing mechanism as said placing mechanism moves from said transfer location to said placement location; and a camera operatively associated with said picking mechanism and said placing mechanism, said camera operable to inspect said placing mechanism for proper alignment when said placing mechanism is positioned at said transfer location, and said camera operable to inspect the die at said transfer location after the die has been transferred from said picking mechanism to said placing mechanism. 9. The robotic die sorter of claim 8, wherein said picking mechanism further includes fifth drive means for rotating said picking mechanism. 10. The robotic die sorter of claim 8, wherein said placing mechanism further includes fifth drive means for rotating said placing mechanism. 11. The robotic die sorter of claim 8, wherein said picking mechanism further includes a first eccentric drive mounted between said first drive means and said first linkage and a second eccentric drive mounted between said second drive means and said first arm. 12. The robotic die sorter of claim 8, wherein said placing mechanism further includes a first eccentric drive mounted between said third drive means and said second linkage and a second eccentric drive mounted between said fourth drive means and said second arm. 13. The robotic die sorter of claim 8, further including a second camera operable to inspect the die prior to removal of the die from a wafer and to inspect the picking mechanism for proper alignment. 14. The robotic die sorter of claim 13, further including a third camera operable to inspect the die after placement of the die into a pocketed tape by the placing mechanism and to inspect the placing mechanism for proper alignment. 15. The robotic die sorter of claim 14, further including a fourth camera operable to inspect the pocketed tape for proper alignment. 