Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of apolipoprotein C-III. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding apolipoprotein C-III. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of apolipoprotein C-III expression and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with expression of apolipoprotein C-III are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides comprising an at least 8 consecutive nucleobase portion complementary to an equal number of nucleobases of nucleotides 3533-3552 of SEQ ID NO: 4, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 2. The compound of claim 1, consisting of a single-stranded modified oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 4. The compound of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 5. The compound of claim 2, wherein at least one internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a modified internucleoside linkage. 6. The compound of claim 5, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 7. The compound of claim 2, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified sugar. 8. The compound of claim 7, wherein at least one modified sugar is a bicyclic sugar. 9. The compound of claim 7, wherein at least one modified sugar comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl. 10. The compound of claim 1, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 11. The compound of claim 10, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; wherein each cytosine residue of the modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine, and wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage. 12. The compound of claim 11, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 13. The compound of claim 12, wherein the 20 linked nucleosides are complementary to nucleotides 3533-3552 of SEQ ID NO: 4. 14. The compound of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide consists of the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 87. 15. The compound of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide consists of the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 87 and comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage, and wherein each cytosine residue of said modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine. 16. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 17. The composition of claim 16, wherein said modified oligonucleotide consists of the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 87 and comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage, and wherein each cytosine residue of said modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine. 18. A modified oligonucleotide consisting of 20 linked nucleosides comprising the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 87 and: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage, and wherein each cytosine residue of said modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine. 