Embodiments of an apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor operational capacity are disclosed. Embodiments include a hobby servo motor having a rotatable output shaft. The rotatable output shaft is splined in that it includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed splines. Embodiments also include a shaft attachment mechanism having a spline receiving portion that includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed protrusions sized and dispersed to support functional engagement of the shaft attachment mechanism to the rotatable shaft. The functional engagement is such that rotation of the rotatable shaft causes a corresponding rotation of the shaft attachment mechanism. The shaft attachment mechanism further includes an elongated shaft that is positioned inline with the rotatable output shaft when the shaft attachment is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor operational capacity, the apparatus comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable output shaft, wherein the rotatable output shaft is splined in that it includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed splines; a shaft attachment mechanism having a spline receiving portion, the spline receiving portion including a plurality of circumferentially distributed protrusions sized and dispersed so as to support a functional engagement of the shaft attachment mechanism to the rotatable output shaft, the functional engagement being such that rotation of the rotable output shaft causes a corresponding rotation of the shaft attachment mechanism; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism further comprises an elongated shaft that is positioned inline with the rotatable output shaft when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft; wherein the rotatable output shafts include a top surface that is positioned within a plane that is substantially perpendicular relative to the plurality of circumferentially distributed splines; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism includes a top receiving surface that, when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, is positioned proximite to the top surface of the rotatable output shaft within a plane that is substantially perpendicular relative to the plurality of circumferentially distributed splines; and wherein the top receiving surface flushly engages the top surface of the rotatable output shaft when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, the hobby servo controls an angular position of the elongated shaft by rotating the rotatable output shaft based on a hobby servo coded input signal. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the splined rotatable output shaft includes a certain number of teeth, wherein the certain number of teeth is selected from a group consisting of 23, 24, and 25. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotatable output shaft includes a threaded orifice, and wherein the apparatus further comprises an elongated attachment mechanism that extends through the elongated shaft and into the threaded orifice such that the attachment mechanism becomes secured to the rotatable output shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotatable output shaft of the hobby servo motor has a limited range of rotational motion. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein positioned inline means that the elongated output shaft and the rotatable output shaft are configured to rotate about a common axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shaft attachment mechanism further comprises a bottom surface configured to flushly engage a portion of a housing associated with the hobby servo motor when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shaft attachment mechanism is a unitarily formed, single piece. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shaft attachment mechanism is a unitarily formed piece of metal material. 10. An apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor operational capacity, the apparatus comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable output shaft, a shaft attachment mechanism configured to functionally engage the rotatable output shaft such that rotation of the rotable output shaft causes a corresponding rotation of the shaft attachment mechanism, the shaft attachment mechanism including an elongated shaft that, when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, is positioned along a common axis relative to the rotatable output shaft; wherein the shaft attachment mechanism further comprises a bottom surface configured to flushly engage a portion of a housing associated with the hobby servo motor when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft; wherein the rotatable output shaft includes a top surface that is positioned within a plane that is substantially perpendicular relative to the common axis; the shaft attachment mechanism includes a top receiving surface that, when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, is positioned proximate to the top surface of the rotatable output shaft within a plane that is substantially perpendicular relative to the common axis; and wherein the top receiving surface flushly engages the top surface of the rotatable output shaft when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein when the shaft attachment mechanism is functionally engaged to the rotatable output shaft, the hobby servo controls an angular position of the elongated shaft by rotating the rotatable output shaft based on a hobby servo coded input signal. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rotatable output shaft includes a certain number of teeth that support said functional engagement, wherein the certain number of teeth is selected from a group consisting of 23, 24, and 25. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rotatable output shaft includes a threaded orifice, and wherein the apparatus further comprises an elongated attachment mechanism that extends through the elongated shaft and into the threaded orifice such that the attachment mechanism becomes secured to the rotatable output shaft. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rotatable output shaft of the hobby servo motor has a limited range of rotational motion. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein positioned inline means that the elongated output shaft and the rotatable output shaft are configured to rotate about a common axis. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the shaft attachment mechanism is a unitarily formed, single piece. 