The present invention provides robotic vehicles having wheeled and hopping mobilities that are capable of traversing (e.g. by hopping over) obstacles that are large in size relative to the robot and, are capable of operation in unpredictable terrain over long range. The present invention further provides combustion powered linear actuators, which can include latching mechanisms to facilitate pressurized fueling of the actuators, as can be used to provide wheeled vehicles with a hopping mobility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot having wheeled and hopping mobilities, the robot comprising: a frame; one or more wheels mounted to the frame, the one or more wheels and the frame operatively arranged to be self-righting; means for powering the one or more wheels; a combustion powered linear actuator attached to the frame, the combustion powered linear actuator extendable to a surface supporting the robot and, the combustion powered linear actuator operatively arranged to impart an acceleration to the robot responsive to actuation of the combustion powered linear actuator; the combustion powered linear actuator including, a body having a first chamber therein; a power piston movably mounted within the first chamber, the power piston movable between a retracted position and an extended position, the power piston having a combustion chamber therein, the combustion chamber operatively arranged to combust a mixture of a fuel and an oxidizer, the combustion chamber fluidically connected to the first chamber and, the power piston having a foot operatively arranged to contact the surface; means for providing the fuel and the oxidizer to the combustion chamber; means for igniting the mixture of the fuel and the oxidizer within the combustion chamber; means for exhausting combustion products from the combustion chamber, a latch operatively connected to the body and the power piston, the latch operatively arranged to releasably restrain the power piston in the retracted position; and, a return energy source connected to the body and the power piston, the return energy source operatively arranged to move the power piston towards the retracted position. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein the one or more wheels comprise a shock absorbing material. 3. The robot of claim 2 wherein the shock absorbing material comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of an elastic material, a rubber, a silicone-rubber, latex, neoprene, polyurethane, Buna-n rubber and a foam rubber. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the means for powering comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of an electric motor and an internal combustion engine. 5. The robot of claim 1 comprising a rotatable mount for attaching the linear actuator to the frame and, a servomotor connected to the rotatable mount, the servomotor operatively arranged to rotatably orient the linear actuator relative to the frame. 6. The robot of claim 5 wherein the servomotor is operatively arranged to rotatably orient the linear actuator through an angle less than or equal to approximately 360 degrees relative to the frame. 7. The robot of claim 1 wherein the one or more wheels comprise one or more tracks. 8. The robot of claim 1 comprising means for steering the robot, the means for steering operatively connected to the one or more wheels. 9. The robot of claim 1 wherein the latch comprises one or more magnets. 10. The robot of claim 9 wherein the one or more magnets comprise a portion of one or more components selected from the group consisting of the body and the foot. 11. The robot of claim 1 wherein the means for exhausting comprises a taper disposed on a wall of the first chamber, the taper operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 12. The robot of claim 11 comprising a through-hole extending through the body, the through-hole disposed on the taper, the through-hole in fluid communication with the first chamber, the through-hole operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber, when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 13. The robot of claim 1 wherein the return energy source comprises a spring. 14. The robot of claim 13 wherein the spring is disposed within the first chamber. 15. The robot of claim 1 wherein the foot comprises a shock absorbing material, the shock absorbing material operatively arranged to contact the surface. 16. The robot of claim 1 wherein the power piston comprises a first flange and the body comprises a second flange, the first flange and the second flange operatively arranged to restrain the power piston within the body when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 17. The robot of claim 16 comprising one or more seals disposed between the first flange and a surface of the first chamber. 18. The robot of claim 17 comprising a shock absorbing material disposed between the first flange and the second flange. 19. The robot of claim 1 wherein the means for igniting comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of a glow plug, a spark plug, a heated wire, and a piezoelectric ignition. 20. The robot of claim 1 wherein the latch is operatively arranged to restrain the power piston in the retracted position, the power piston restrained against a force generated by a pressure within the combustion chamber equal to or less than approximately six atmospheres. 21. The robot of claim 1 wherein the means for providing fuel and oxidizer to the combustion chamber comprises: a fuel storage tank and an oxidizer storage tank, the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks operatively arranged to store a pressurized fuel and a pressurized oxidizer respectively; and, a delivery system for conveying the fuel and the oxidizer from the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks, to the combustion chamber. 22. The robot of claim 21 wherein the fuel and the oxidizer each have a critical temperature higher than a temperature of the environment within which the actuator is operated. 23. The robot of claim 22 wherein the delivery system comprises for each of the fuel and the oxidizer one or more selected from the group consisting of a pressure regulator and a pressure transducer. 24. The robot of claim 1 wherein the fuel comprises one or more fuels selected from the group consisting of propane, butane, methyl acetylene, propylene, butylene, and methylacetylene-propadiene. 25. The robot of claim 1 wherein the oxidizer comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide and nitrogen tetroxide. 26. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the mixture of the fuel and the oxidizer comprises a mixture having a pressure of from approximately one atmosphere to approximately six atmospheres. 27. A robot having wheeled and hopping mobilities, the robot comprising: a frame; a plurality of wheels mounted to the frame, the plurality of wheels and the frame operatively arranged to be self-righting; one or more electric motors mounted to the frame, the one or more electric motors operatively arranged to power at least one of the plurality of wheels; an electrical storage device mounted to the frame, the electrical storage device operatively connected to the electric motors; and, a combustion powered linear actuator mounted to the frame by a rotatable mount, the actuator extendable to a surface supporting the robot and, the actuator operatively arranged to impart an acceleration to the robot responsive to actuation of the actuator, the actuator comprising: a body having a first chamber therein; a power piston movably mounted within the first chamber, the power piston movable between a retracted position and an extended position, the power piston having a combustion chamber therein, the combustion chamber operatively arranged to combust a mixture of a fuel and an oxidizer, the combustion chamber fluidically connected to the first chamber and, the power piston having a foot operatively arranged to contact the surface; a fuel storage tank and an oxidizer storage tank, the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks operatively arranged to store a pressurized fuel and a pressurized oxidizer respectively; a delivery system for conveying the fuel and the oxidizer from the fuel and the oxidizer storage tanks, to the combustion chamber; a glow plug operatively arranged to ignite the mixture of the fuel and the oxidizer within the combustion chamber; a taper disposed on a wall of the first chamber, the taper operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber when the power piston is at or near the extended position; a latch operatively connected to the body and the power piston, the latch operatively arranged to releasably restrain the power piston in the retracted position, the latch comprising one or more magnets disposed in the body, the one or more magnets operatively arranged to magnetically couple to a member within the foot when the power piston is at or near the retracted position; and, a spring connected to the body and the power piston, the spring disposed within the first chamber, the spring operatively arranged to move the power piston towards the retracted position. 28. The robot of claim 27 wherein the plurality of wheels comprise a plurality of wheels mounted on a first side and a plurality of wheels mounted on an opposed side of the frame, the plurality of wheels mounted on the first side being operatively coupled and the plurality of wheels mounted on the opposed side being operatively coupled, thereby providing skid steering of the robot. 29. The robot of claim 27 wherein the plurality of wheels comprises a shock absorbing material. 30. The robot of claim 29 wherein the shock absorbing material comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of an elastic material, a rubber, a silicone-rubber, latex, neoprene, polyurethane, Buna-n rubber and a foam rubber. 31. The robot of claim 29 comprising a servomotor connected to the rotatable mount and the frame, the servomotor operatively arranged to rotatably orient the actuator relative to the frame. 32. The robot of claim 27 comprising a transceiver mounted on the frame, the transceiver operatively arranged to provide communication with the robot, to a remote user. 33. The robot of claim 32 comprising a processor, the processor operatively connected with the transceiver, the processor operatively arranged to control the operation of the robot. 34. The robot of claim 27 wherein the actuator comprises a throughhole extending through the body, the through-hole disposed on the taper, the through hole in fluid communication with the first chamber, the through hole operatively arranged to exhaust combustion products from the combustion chamber, when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 35. The robot of claim 27 wherein the foot comprises a shock absorbing material, the shock absorbing material operatively arranged to contact the surface. 36. The robot of claim 27 wherein the power piston comprises a first flange and, the body comprises a second flange, the first flange and the second flange operatively arranged to restrain the power piston within the body when the power piston is at or near the extended position. 37. The robot of claim 36 wherein: the first flange comprises a top surface and a side surface; the first chamber comprises an end surface and a sidewall; and, a first is seal disposed between the top surface and the end surface, the first seal operatively arranged to contact the top surface and the end surface when the power piston is at the retracted position. 38. The robot of claim 37 comprising a second seal, the second seal disposed between the side surface and the sidewall. 39. The robot of claim 36 comprising a shock absorbing material disposed between the first flange and the second flange. 40. The robot of claim 27 wherein the fuel comprises one or more fuels selected from the group consisting of propane, butane, methyl acetylene, propylene, butylene, and methylacetylene-propadiene. 41. The robot of claim 27 wherein the oxidizer comprises one or more oxidizers selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide and nitrogen tetroxide. 42. The robot of claim 27 wherein the delivery system comprises for each of the fuel and the oxidizer, one or more components selected from the group consisting of a pressure regulator and a pressure transducer. 43. The robot of claim 27 wherein the mixture of fuel and oxidizer comprises a mixture having a pressure from approximately one atmosphere to approximately six atmospheres. 44. The robot of claim 27 wherein the plurality of wheels comprises one or more self righting elements selected from the group consisting of an axle extension, a pad attached to an axle extension and a sidewall extension disposed on a wheel. 