A mechanical fiber optic switch, which includes a base structure and a plurality of first optical fibers, mounted on the base structure. The first optical fibers are arranged such that their ends define a curved cylinder surface. The switch also includes a plurality of second optical fibers adapted to be optically coupled to selected ones of the first fibers. A movable control unit is adapted to move within the switch and to move both the first and the second optical fibers.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical fiber optic switch, comprising: a base structure; a plurality of first optical fibers mounted on the base structure, arranged such that their ends are adapted to move along respective paths together defining a curved cylinder surface; a plurality of second optical fibers adapted to be optically coupled to selected ones of the first fibers; and a movable control unit adapted to move relative to the base structure and to selectively control movement of the ends of the first optical fibers along their respective paths and to selectively control movement of each of the second optical fibers without moving therewith at least one of the other second fibers. 2. The switch of claim 1, wherein the second fibers include at their ends optical connectors and the plurality of first optical fibers include at their ends fiber adapters adapted to receive the optical connectors of the second fibers. 3. The switch of claim 1, wherein the ends of the first fibers are configured to move only along respective circular paths. 4. The switch of claim 3, wherein the ends of the first fibers are mounted on respective rotatable disks, which each rotates separately from the other disks. 5. The switch of claim 3, wherein the ends of the second fibers are configured to move only along respective straight lines. 6. The switch of claim 5, wherein the movable control unit comprises a linearly movable unit adapted to move along a straight line parallel to the straight lines of the second fibers. 7. The switch of claim 6, wherein the linearly movable unit has a closed shape which surrounds the curved cylinder surface defined by the ends of the plurality of first optical fibers. 8. The switch of claim 1, wherein the movable control unit comprises an arm adapted to move the ends of the first fibers. 9. The switch of claim 1, wherein the switch includes no more than eight motors for moving the ends of the first and second fibers. 10. The switch of claim 1, wherein the movable control unit comprises a gripper adapted to selectively grasp second fibers such that the fibers move with the movement of the moveable control unit. 11. The switch of claim 1, wherein the moveable control unit is removable from the switch without misaligning any already aligned pairs of first and second fibers. 12. The switch of claim 1, wherein the number of motors in the switch is independent of the number of first fibers of the switch. 13. The switch of claim 1, comprising an anchoring unit with places for anchoring each of the second fibers with an optical coupling to a light source which generates a light signal of specific characteristics or to a light detector. 14. The switch of claim 1, wherein movement of the first fibers requires operating up to two motors of the switch. 15. The switch of claim 1, wherein the first fibers are mounted on respective disks having a substantially circular or regular polygonal perimeter. 16. The switch of claim 1, wherein the movable control unit comprises a circular ring on which a fiber gripper is mounted. 17. A method of switching fibers within an optical fiber switch, comprising: determining a first fiber and a second fiber which are to be coupled, within a switch having a cylindrical structure; moving a control unit to a location of the second fiber; grasping the second fiber; moving the control unit while grasping the second fiber to a location at which it is to be coupled with the determined first fiber; moving the first fiber to a location at which it is to be coupled with the second fiber, by the control unit, by rotating a member on which the first fiber is mounted; and coupling the first and second fibers. 18. The method of claim 17, comprising moving a fiber coupled to the first fiber to an anchoring unit before moving the control unit to the location of the second fiber. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein moving the control unit to the location of the second fiber comprises using at most two motors. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein determining the first fiber and the second fiber which are to be coupled comprises receiving an instruction over a wireless connection. 21. The switch of claim 1, wherein the movable control unit is adapted to selectively move each of the first optical fibers without moving one or more of the other first fibers with it. 22. The switch of claim 7, wherein the movable control unit comprises a robotic unit mounted on the linearly movable unit, and adapted to move around the linearly moveable unit so as to access any of the second fibers. 