A counter is disclosed for use with a medication storing and dispensing cassette. The counter is comprised of a loader for receiving a cassette, a sensor for sensing whether a cassette is in the loader, means for moving the loader into an operative position, a vacuum unit for applying a vacuum to the cassette, a drive unit for driving a driven portion of the cassette and a counter for counting medication within a portion of the cassette. Methods of operating the counter are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A counter for use with a cassette of the type having a chamber for carrying medication to be counted and dispensed, comprising: a loader for receiving a cassette; a sensor for sensing whether a cassette is in said loader; means for moving the loader into an operative position; a vacuum unit for applying a vacuum to the cassette; a drive unit for driving a driven portion of the cassette; means for automatically controlling the position of a calibration mechanism within the cassette; and a counter for counting medication within a portion of the cassette. 2. The counter of claim 1 additionally comprising a passive vial gripper for receiving a vial. 3. The counter of claim 2 additionally comprising a sensor for sensing the presence of a vial. 4. The counter of claim 1 additionally comprising means for opening a chute gate on the cassette. 5. The counter of claim 4 additionally comprising a sensor for sensing the position of the chute gate. 6. The counter of claim 1 wherein said portion of the cassette includes a discharge chute, said counter additionally comprising means for opening a valve at an entrance end of the discharge chute. 7. A counter for use with a cassette of the type having a chamber for carrying medication to be counted and dispensed, comprising: a sensor for sensing whether a cassette is in said counter; a calibration driver for automatically controlling the position of a calibration mechanism with the cassette; a vacuum unit for applying a vacuum to the cassette; a drive unit for driving a driven portion of the cassette; and a counter for counting medication within a portion of the cassette. 8. The counter of claim 7 additionally comprising a passive vial gripper for receiving a vial. 9. The counter of claim 8 additionally comprising a sensor for sensing the presence of a vial. 10. The counter of claim 7 additionally comprising means for opening a chute gate on the cassette. 11. The counter of claim 10 additionally comprising a sensor for sensing the position of the chute gate. 12. The counter of claim 7 wherein said portion of the cassette includes a discharge chute, said counter additionally comprising means for opening a valve at an entrance end of the discharge chute. 13. The counter of claim 7 additionally comprising a loader for receiving the cassette and means for moving the loader into and out of an operative position. 