The present invention provides devices and methods for attachment of an endolumenal gastrointestinal device, such as an artificial stoma device, a gastrointestinal bypass sleeve or other therapeutic or diagnostic device, within a patient's digestive tract. In one application of the invention, an endolumenal bypass sleeve is removeably attached in the vicinity of the gastroesophageal junction to treat obesity and/or its comorbidities, such as diabetes. The bypass sleeve may be at least partially deployed by eversion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a patient, comprising the steps of: providing a gastrointestinal sleeve device having an elongate tubular body, with a first end, a fold point where the sleeve inverts proximally within itself, and a second end; positioning the gastrointestinal sleeve device in the patient's digestive tract such that the second end is positioned proximally to the fold point and within the sleeve; everting the sleeve distally to position the second end distal to the pylorus so that the second end advances distally past the fold point, removing the fold; positioning the first end at the gastroesophageal junction to receive ingested material from the patient's esophagus; and securing the first end at the gastroesophageal junction. 2. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the securing step comprises advancing at least four tissue anchors through a tissue wall and positioning a retention surface on each tissue anchor in contact with a serosal surface of the tissue wall. 3. A method of treating a patient as in claim 2, wherein the tissue anchor comprises a connecting element for connecting the retention surface to the sleeve device, and the length of the connecting element is at least about 75% of the uncompressed tissue wall thickness. 4. A method of treating a patient as in claim 3, wherein the length of the connecting element is at least about 95% of the uncompressed tissue wall thickness. 5. A method of treating a patient as in claim 3, wherein the length of the connecting element is at least about 125% of the uncompressed tissue wall thickness. 6. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the tubular body is impermeable such that the tubular body acts as an internal intestinal bypass. 7. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the providing step comprises providing the tubular body with a stoma in the vicinity of the first end. 8. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the everting step comprises everting the tubular body such that the second end is positioned at least as far as the patient's jejunum. 9. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the everting step comprises everting the tubular body such that the second end is positioned at least about 100 cm past the pylorus. 10. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the providing step comprises providing a sleeve having a substantially constant diameter throughout its length. 11. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the providing step comprises providing a sleeve having a funnel-shaped entry on the proximal end. 12. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein everting the sleeve distally to position the second end distal to the pylorus comprises positioning the second end into the duodenum. 13. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein everting the sleeve distally to position the second end distal to the pylorus comprises positioning the second end into the jejunum. 14. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein everting the sleeve distally to position the second end distal to the pylorus comprises positioning the second end into the ileum. 15. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the securing step comprises securing the first end of the sleeve to a cuff. 16. A method of treating a patient as in claim 15, comprising the steps of first inserting the cuff, and second advancing the distal end of the sleeve through the cuff. 17. A method of treating a patient as in claim 15, wherein the sleeve is removably secured to the cuff. 18. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein a pull line is releasably secured to the distal end of the sleeve. 19. A method of treating a patient as in claim 18, further comprising temporarily occluding the distal end of the sleeve during deployment of the sleeve. 