Surface normals and other 3D shape descriptors are determined for a specular or hybrid specular-diffuse object. A camera records an image of a smoothly spatially-varying pattern being reflected in the surface of the object, with the pattern placed at an initial position. The camera then records multiple images of the pattern undergoing a sequence of subsequent displacements to a final position distinct from the initial position. For a pixel in the images, the pattern displacement that corresponds to the minimum difference between the pixel value in the initial image and any of the final images is determined. The incident ray that strikes the surface of the object at the point being imaged by the pixel is then determined using the determined pattern displacement. The surface normal at that same surface point is then determined using the determined incident ray. Other 3D shape descriptors are determined from the surface normals of the object, such as principal curvatures, or the principal axes of a parametric surface, or the 3D shape, or the object pose.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for sensing a shape of a surface of a reflective object, comprising the steps of: recording an initial image value for a surface point on the object, when the surface is reflecting a visible item in an initial position; recording subsequent image values as the visible item undergoes a predetermined motion, through subsequent positions that are distinct from the initial position; identifying the position of the visible item at which the image value for the surface point becomes substantially identical to the initial image value; and determining a surface normal of the surface point using the initial and the identified position of the visible item, wherein the steps of the method are performed in a processor. 2. The method of claim 1, in which the visible item is a planar screen showing a spatially-varying pattern, and further comprising the steps of: acquiring an initial image of the screen being reflected in the surface of the object, with the screen at the initial position; moving the screen according to the predetermined motion to the final position parallel to the initial position; acquiring final images of the screen being reflected in the surface of the object, with the screen at the final position and with the pattern undergoing a sequence of displacements on the screen; determining, for a pixel in the images, a minimum difference between a pixel value in the initial image and any of the final images, and recording the associated displacement of the pattern; determining, for the pixel from the displacements of the displacement, a direction of an incident ray from the pattern to the surface of the object at the point being imaged by the pixel; and determining for a pixel, from its determined incident ray, the surface normal of the object at the point being imaged by the pixel, the surface normal representing a shape of the surface at the surface point. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface normals are used to determine 3D properties of the surface, selected from the group consisting of principal curvatures, principal axes of a parametric surface, 3D shape, and object pose. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the image values are only recorded for parts of the object reflecting the visible item. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the visible item is an object with an imprinted pattern. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the visible item is an object with a projected pattern. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the visible item is an object with a pattern that is a 1D intensity ramp. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the 1D intensity ramp includes multiple color ramps. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein the steps are performed two times, the first time using a 1D pattern varying along a horizontal direction of the screen only and the pattern displacement is horizontal, and the second time using a 1D pattern varying vertically only and the pattern displacement is vertical, and the results are combined to obtain the surface normal. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the number of images of the pattern that is captured is three, one image at the initial screen position, and two images at the final screen position, and the displacement of the pattern that would give minimum difference in pixel value between the initial and final images is determined by linear interpolation. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein the number of images of the pattern that is captured is more than three, one image at the initial screen position, and the other the images at the final screen position, and the displacement of the pattern that gives the minimum difference in the pixel value between the initial and final images is determined by a higher-order method of interpolation. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein the pattern repeats periodically on the screen, and a period is large enough that points of the pattern that reflect to a given pixel in the initial and final images lie within a single period of the periodic pattern. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the pattern is displaced on the screen at the initial position as well as at the final position, and multiple initial images and multiple final images are used to determine the shape of the surface. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein a variation in the surface normals across a part of the surface is used to characterize a property of the surface. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the variation in the surface normals is used to identify a physical discontinuity in the surface. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the variation in the surface normals is used to identify principal curvatures at each surface point and, for a parametric surface, axes of symmetry. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the variation in the surface normals is used to identify a raised bas-relief design. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the variation in the surface normals is used to characterize a smoothness of the surface. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the variation in the surface normals is used to characterize anisotropy of the surface. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the variation in the surface normals is used to identify a discontinuity in the reflection on the surface. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein a variation in the image values is used to characterize a property of the surface. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the variation is used to characterize anisotropy of the surface. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the visible item is composed of multiple planar facets. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein two or more cameras are used to view the object. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein a zoom camera is used to view the object. 26. A system for sensing a shape of a surface of a reflective object, system comprising: means for recording an initial image value for a surface point on the object, when the surface is reflecting a visible item in an initial position; means for recording subsequent image values as the visible item undergoes a predetermined motion, through subsequent positions that are distinct from the initial position; means for identifying the position of the visible item at which the image value for the surface point becomes substantially identical to the initial image value; and means for determining a surface normal of the surface point using the initial and the identified position of the visible item. 