Systems, methods, compositions and apparatus relating to genome selection are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more male germ line haploid genomes, the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially condensed; one or more first units operable to at least partially decondense the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; one or more monitoring units operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: the one or more at least partially isolated first sources positioned to provide the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more first units, the one or more monitoring units, or one or more hybridization units. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further including one or more second sources of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the one or more second sources of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers comprise: the one or more second sources positioned to provide one or more of the one or more probes or the one or more molecular markers to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more first units, the one or more monitoring units, or one or more hybridization units. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources are further operable to receive one or more inputs. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more inputs include one or more of one or more female germ line genomes, one or more male germ line genomes, the one or more probes, or the one or more molecular markers. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, further including one or more third sources of one or more female germ line genomes. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein one or more third sources of one or more female germ line genomes comprises: one or more third sources, the one or more third sources positioned to provide the one or more female germ line genomes to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more first units, the one or more monitoring units, or one or more hybridization units. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more monitoring units are operable to detect one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more monitoring units are operable to detect one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers associated with the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more monitoring units are further operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more hybridization units operable to co-localize one or more probes with one or more nucleic acids of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein one or more of the one or more hybridization units are operable to hybridize the one or more probes with one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more hybridization units operable to co-localize one or more probes with one or more nucleic acids of one or more female germ line genomes. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on detection of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers associated with one or more nucleic acids. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on detection of one or more probes hybridized to one or more nucleic acids. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on identification of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers associated with one or more nucleic acids. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on identification of one or more probes hybridized to one or more nucleic acids. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on a weighted analysis of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on one or more of one or more target genetic characteristics or one or more reference genetic characteristics. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on a weighted combination of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on one or more of one or more target genetic characteristics or one or more reference genetic characteristics. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the detection of one or more probes hybridized to one or more nucleic acids of one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the detection of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers associated with one or more nucleic acids of one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 