A method and apparatus for cleaning layers of solar cell substrates is disclosed. The substrate is exposed to a reactive gas that may comprise neutral radicals comprising nitrogen and fluorine, or that may comprise anhydrous HF and water, alcohol, or a mixture of water and alcohol. The reactive gas may further comprise a carrier gas. The reactive gas etches the solar cell substrate surface, removing oxygen and other impurities. When exposed to the neutral radicals, the substrate grows a thin film containing ammonium hexafluorosilicate, which is subsequently removed by heat treatment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a layer of a solar cell substrate, comprising: disposing the solar cell substrate on a substrate support in a process chamber having walls; providing a reactive gas mixture comprising neutral radicals to the process chamber; directing the reactive gas mixture toward the substrate; reacting the neutral radicals with oxygen from the substrate to form a thin film on the substrate; maintaining a temperature of the substrate below a temperature of the chamber walls during formation of the thin film; and removing the thin film and depositing hydrogen, fluorine, or both on the substrate surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive gas mixture comprises nitrogen, fluorine, and hydrogen. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the reactive gas mixture comprises applying dissociative energy to a precursor gas mixture. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive gas mixture comprises nitrogen, fluorine, and hydrogen, and is free of electric charges. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the solar cell substrate comprises single crystal silicon, multi-crystalline silicon, or polycrystalline silicon. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein applying dissociative energy to the precursor gas mixture comprises forming charged and uncharged reactive species and combining the charged reactive species to form uncharged reactive species. 7. A method of processing a solar cell substrate, comprising: disposing the substrate on a substrate support in a process chamber; providing a precursor gas mixture to an activation chamber; activating the precursor gas mixture by applying dissociative energy to the precursor gas mixture to form a reactive gas mixture; flowing the reactive gas mixture to the process chamber over an interval sufficient to neutralize at least 90% of charged active species in the reactive gas; exposing a heavily-doped p-type layer of the substrate to the reactive gas to release oxygen gas while forming a thin film on the substrate; cooling the substrate while exposing the substrate to the reactive gas; removing the thin film to form an exposed substrate surface and depositing fluorine on the exposed substrate surface, wherein both the removing and depositing are performed by heating the thin film; and depositing a passivating layer over the fluorinated exposed substrate surface. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the precursor gas comprises nitrogen, hydrogen, and fluorine. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the reactive gas comprises electrically neutral radicals. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the surface of the substrate is a layer of a p-i-n junction. 