In a first aspect, a first method of mapping contents of a substrate carrier is provided. The first method includes the steps of (1) coupling a sensor to the substrate carrier or a loadport adapted to receive the substrate carrier; and (2) determining a presence or absence of a substrate in a slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: positioning a sensor on a substrate carrier; and determining a presence or absence of a substrate in a slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor, wherein the substrate carrier includes a tab structure in the slot, the tab structure configured to displace from a first position to a second position when a substrate is present in the slot and interrupt a signal of the sensor when in the first or second position; and determining a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor includes determining the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier based on interruption of the signal by the tab structure. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein determining a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor includes determining a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor before opening a door of the substrate carrier. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the sensor includes an optical sensor configured to transmit a light beam into the substrate carrier to determine a presence or absence of a substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein determining a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor includes transmitting an optical signal through the substrate carrier. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining whether a substrate present in the substrate carrier is positioned in the slot using the sensor. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising creating a map of the substrate carrier contents based on the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising transmitting the map to a controller configured to employ the map to access the substrate carrier. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein: determining the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier based on interruption of the signal by the tab structure includes determining the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier through a window of the substrate carrier based on interruption of the signal by the tab structure. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: positioning an additional sensor on the substrate carrier; and determining a presence or absence of another substrate in an additional slot of the substrate carrier using the additional sensor. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising creating a map of the substrate carrier contents based on the presence or absence of substrates in respective slots of the substrate carrier. 11. An apparatus comprising: a substrate carrier having a slot configured to support a substrate; and a sensor positioned on the substrate carrier; wherein the apparatus is configured to determine a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor, and wherein the substrate carrier includes a tab structure in the slot, the tab structure configured to displace from a first position to a second position when a substrate is present in the slot and interrupt a signal of the sensor when in the first or second position; and the apparatus is further configured to determine the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier based on interruption of the signal by the tab structure. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further including structure capable of being used to determine a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor before a door of the substrate carrier is opened. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the sensor includes an optical sensor configured to transmit a light beam into the substrate carrier to determine a presence or absence of a substrate. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the apparatus is further configured to determine a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier using the sensor by transmitting an optical signal through the substrate carrier. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 further including structure capable of being used to determine whether a substrate present in the substrate carrier is positioned in the slot using the sensor. 16. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a mapping controller configured to create a map of the substrate carrier contents based on the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further including structure capable of being used to transmit the map to a controller configured to employ the map to access the substrate carrier. 18. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein: the substrate carrier includes a window; and the apparatus is further configured to determine the presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate carrier through the window. 19. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: an additional slot in the substrate carrier; and an additional sensor positioned on the substrate carrier; wherein the apparatus is further configured to determine a presence or absence of another substrate in the additional slot of the substrate carrier using the additional sensor. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a mapping controller configured to create a map of the substrate carrier contents based on the presence or absence of substrates in respective slots of the substrate carrier. 21. A substrate carrier, comprising: a slot configured to support a substrate; and a feature configured to interact with a sensor such that the sensor may detect a presence or absence of a substrate in the slot of the substrate; and wherein the sensor is positioned on the substrate carrier and wherein the feature is a tab structure coupled to the slot and configured to displace from a first position to a second position when a substrate is present in the slot and interrupt a signal of the sensor when in the first or second position. 