Various robotic devices and related medical procedures are disclosed herein. Each of the various robotic devices have an agent delivery component. The devices include mobile robotic devices and fixed base robotic devices as disclosed herein. The agent delivery component can have at least one agent reservoir and a discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robotic device, comprising: (a) a body configured to be disposed within a patient cavity; (b) a translational mobility component coupled with the body; (c) an actuator coupled with the translational mobility component; (d) a power source coupled with the actuator; (e) a controller component coupled with the actuator; (f) an agent delivery component associated with the body, wherein the mobility component is configured to apply translational pressure on a surface for purposes of mobility or immobility. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the agent delivery component is disposed within the body. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the agent delivery component is configured to deliver an agent, wherein the agent is a hemostatic agent. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the agent delivery component comprises: (a) at least one agent reservoir; and (b) a discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the discharge component is a mixing and discharge component comprising: (a) at least one delivery tube in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir; (b) a manifold in fluidic communication with the at least one delivery tube; and (c) a cannula in fluidic communication with the manifold. 6. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one imaging component associated with the body. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the controller component is wirelessly coupled with the actuator. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the controller component is coupled with the actuator via a flexible connection component. 9. The device of claim 1, further comprising an operational component operably associated with the body. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the operational component is a biopsy tool. 11. The device of claim 9, wherein the operational component is a sensor. 12. A method of performing a procedure inside a patient, the method comprising: positioning a robotic device in a cavity inside the patient, wherein the robotic device comprises: (a) a body configured to be disposed within a patient cavity; (b) a mobility component coupled with the body; (c) an actuator coupled with the mobility component; (d) a power source coupled with the actuator; (e) a controller component coupled with the actuator; and (f) an agent delivery component associated with the body, the agent delivery component comprising: (i) at least one agent reservoir; and (ii) a mixing and discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir; operating the controller component to cause the mobility component to move the robotic device to a desired location within the cavity; and delivering an agent to the desired location with the agent delivery component. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein delivering the agent to the desired location further comprises operating the controller component to cause the agent delivery component to deliver the agent. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the robotic device further comprises an operational component operably coupled with the body. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the operational component is a biopsy tool. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising using the biopsy tool to obtain a biopsy sample from the desired location prior to delivering the agent. 