Systems and methods are presented that enable a legged robot to maintain its balance when subjected to an unexpected force. In the reflex phase, the robot withstands the immediate effect of the force by yielding to it. In one embodiment, during the reflex phase, the control system determines an instruction that will cause the robot to perform a movement that generates a negative rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at its centroid in a magnitude large enough to compensate for the destabilizing effect of the force. In the recovery phase, the robot recovers its posture after having moved during the reflex phase. In one embodiment, the robot returns to a statically stable upright posture that maximizes the robot's potential energy. In one embodiment, during the recovery phase, the control system determines an instruction that will cause the robot to perform a movement that increases its potential energy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining instructions to send to a legged robot subjected to a force, the method comprising: determining a desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; determining a first set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to yield to the force, wherein the first set of instructions is determined responsive to the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; and determining a second set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve a stable upright posture. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid is proportional to a horizontal deviation of the robot's center of pressure from the robot's center of mass. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of instructions is further determined responsive to a desired rate of change of the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the desired rate of change of the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid is proportional to the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a gravitational potential energy of the robot. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the stable upright posture maximizes the robot's gravitational potential energy. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to the gravitational potential energy of the robot comprises: using an algorithm to optimize a gravitational potential energy of the robot, wherein a current configuration of the robot is used to determine a desired configuration of the robot, and wherein a gravitational potential energy of the desired configuration of the robot is larger than a gravitational potential energy of the current configuration of the robot; and determining an instruction to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve the desired configuration. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a static joint torque of the robot. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the stable upright posture minimizes the robot's static joint torque. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first set of instructions comprises: determining a set of joint accelerations that will generate the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; determining a set of joint torques that will generate the determined set of joint accelerations; and determining an instruction to send to the robot that will cause the robot to generate the determined set of joint torques. 11. A computer program product for determining instructions to send to a legged robot subjected to a force, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer readable instructions which, when executed in a computer system, cause the computer system to perform a method comprising: determining a desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; determining a first set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to yield to the force, wherein the first set of instructions is determined responsive to the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; and determining a second set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve a stable upright posture. 12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid is proportional to a horizontal deviation of the robot's center of pressure from the robot's center of mass. 13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the first set of instructions is further determined responsive to a desired rate of change of the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid. 14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a gravitational potential energy of the robot. 15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a static joint torque of the robot. 16. A system for determining instructions to send to a legged robot subjected to a force, the system comprising a processor configured to execute a method comprising: determining a desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; determining a first set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to yield to the force, wherein the first set of instructions is determined responsive to the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid; and determining a second set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve a stable upright posture. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid is proportional to a horizontal deviation of the robot's center of pressure from the robot's center of mass. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the first set of instructions is further determined responsive to a desired rate of change of the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a gravitational potential energy of the robot. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the second set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a static joint torque of the robot. 