A stopper and container body are molded in the same molding machine. An assembly device, such as a pick and place robot, transfers the stopper from one mold cavity into the opening in the container body located within another mold cavity, or vice versa, to assemble the stopper and container body. Then, the assembled container body and stopper are removed from the molding machine and transported to a needle filling and laser resealing station for filling and laser resealing. A laminar flow source directs a substantially laminar flow of air or sterile gas over the mold surfaces, stoppers and container bodies, and assembly device, to prevent contamination during assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, the apparatus comprising: first means for forming therein a container body; second means for forming therein a resealable member; and third means located adjacent and movable relative to the first means and the second means for at least one of (i) transferring a formed container body from the first means to a formed resealable member which is located at least partially within the second means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; and (ii) transferring a formed resealable member from the second means to a formed container body which is located at least partially in the first means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first means is a first mold cavity, the second means is a second mold cavity, and the third means is a robotic assembly device. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising fourth means for penetrating the resealable member of a sealed, empty container and resealable member assembly and aseptically filling a substance into the interior chamber thereof, and fifth means for thermally resealing the resulting penetration hole in the resealable member. 4. An apparatus for molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, the apparatus comprising: first means for forming therein a container body; second means for forming therein a resealable member; third means located adjacent and movable relative to the first means and the second means for at least one of (i) transferring a formed container body from the first means to a formed resealable member which is located at least partially within the second means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; (ii) transferring a formed resealable member from the second means to a formed container body which is located at least partially in the first means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; and (iii) assembling the container body and the resealable member each at a bactericidal temperature and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; fourth means for penetrating the resealable member of a sealed, empty container and resealable member assembly and aseptically filling a substance into the interior chamber thereof, and fifth means for thermally resealing the resulting penetration hole in the resealable member. 5. An apparatus for molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, the apparatus comprising: at least one first mold cavity shaped to form the container body; at least one second mold cavity shaped to form the resealable member; and an assembly device, wherein at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device is movable relative to the others for assembling a substantially sterile resealable member at a first temperature from the first mold cavity and a substantially sterile container at a second temperature from the second mold cavity into a sealed container and resealable member assembly, the first and second temperatures are greater than an ambient temperature of the apparatus, and the assembly device is located adjacent to the first and second mold cavities and configured to at least one of (i) transfer the resealable member from the second mold cavity to the container body which is located at least partially within the first mold cavity for assembling the resealable member to the container body, and (ii) transfer the container body from the first mold cavity to the resealable member which is located at least partially within the second mold cavity for assembling the container body to the resealable member. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the first and second temperatures are each greater than approximately 80.degree. C. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 6, wherein the first and second temperatures are each within the range of about 80.degree. C. through about 140.degree. C. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the first mold cavity defines a first outlet for removing the molded container body therethrough, and the assembly device is operatively coupled to the first outlet for at least one of (i) assembling a resealable member and container body and (ii) transferring an assembled resealable member and container body. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the second mold cavity defines a second outlet for removing the molded resealable member therethrough, and the assembly device is operatively coupled to the second outlet for at least one of (i) assembling a resealable member and container body and (ii) transferring an assembled resealable member and container body. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, further comprising a source coupled in fluid communication with at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device for directing a flow of sterile gas over the container body and resealable member during assembly thereof. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10, further comprising a barrier enclosure surrounding at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device, and defining an aseptic enclosure for assembling therein the resealable member and container body. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein the first mold cavity is located within a first molding machine, the second mold cavity is located within a second molding machine, and the first and second molding machines are located within the barrier enclosure. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the assembly device is a robot including at least one robotic arm and an assembly tool mounted on the robotic arm for assembling the resealable member and container body. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, further comprising a plurality of first mold cavities and a plurality of second mold cavities. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein the assembly device substantially simultaneously assembles a plurality of container bodies and resealable members from the first and second mold cavities, respectively. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the first and second temperatures are bactericidal. 17. Apparatus for molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, the apparatus comprising: at least one first mold cavity shaped to form the container body; at least one second mold cavity shaped to form the resealable member; an assembly device, wherein at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device is movable relative to the others for assembling a substantially sterile resealable member at a first temperature from the first mold cavity and a substantially sterile container at a second temperature from the second mold cavity into a sealed container and resealable member assembly, the first and second temperatures are greater than an ambient temperature of the apparatus, and the assembly device is located adjacent to the first and second mold cavities and configured to at least one of (i) transfer the resealable member from the second mold cavity to the container body which is located at least partially within the first mold cavity for assembling the resealable member to the container body, and (ii) transfer the container body from the first mold cavity to the resealable member which is located at least partially within the second mold cavity for assembling the container body to the resealable member; and a needle filling and thermal resealing station including (i) at least one needle that is movable between a first position for penetrating the resealable member and introducing a substance from the needle therethrough and into the interior chamber of the container body, and a second position spaced away from the resealable member; and (ii) a thermal source for thermally sealing a needle penetrated region of the resealable member upon withdrawal of the needle therefrom. 18. Apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the first and second mold cavities and assembly device, and the needle filling and thermal resealing station are mounted in line relative to each other such that container and resealable member assemblies flow from at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device to the needle filling and thermal resealing station. 19. Apparatus as defined in claim 17, further comprising an e-beam source for transmitting e-beam radiation on at least one of (i) the assembled container and resealable member prior to needle filling and thermal resealing thereof, and (ii) the assembled container and resealable member and needle during filling and thermal resealing thereof. 20. Apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the needle filling and thermal resealing station further includes at least one temperature sensor for sensing the temperature of the thermally resealed portion of the resealable member, and the temperature sensor determines whether the temperature of the resealable surface of the resealable member is greater than the melting temperature of the resealable member material and less than the vaporization temperature of the resealable member material. 21. Apparatus as defined in claim 20, wherein the temperature sensor compares a sensed temperature to at least one predetermined temperature to determine whether a needle hole in the resealable member is sealed. 