Well bore servicing equipment is provided. The well bore servicing equipment comprises a first manipulator to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string. The well bore servicing equipment further comprises a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of servicing a well bore with a work string, comprising: receiving a control mode input from a user interface, wherein the control mode input identifies a work string control mode of operation; receiving a work string trajectory input from the user interface, wherein the work string trajectory input comprises at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity; and automatically controlling a plurality of manipulators to raise or lower the workstring within the well bore to substantially match the work string trajectory input according to the work string control mode of operation. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the control mode input identifies a distributed load sequential mode, where a first manipulator and a second manipulator are controlled to concurrently grip the work string and to apply force to the work string in the same direction at the same time. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed sequential mode, where a first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with a second manipulator and wherein the work string is moved by the first manipulator and the second manipulator in a sequence of start and stop actions. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed continuous mode, where a first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with a second manipulator and wherein the work string is moved by the first manipulator and second manipulator with a substantially constant velocity. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed constrained mode, where a first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with a second manipulator to achieve a maximum hand-off speed between the first manipulator and the second manipulator. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a pipe collar indication, wherein controlling the plurality of manipulators is based further on the pipe collar indication. 7. A control system for controlling movement of a work string in a well bore, comprising: a controller comprising a processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory, wherein the application when executed by the processor receives a control mode input from a user interface, wherein the control mode input identifies a work string control mode of operation; receives a work string trajectory input from the user interface, wherein the work string trajectory input comprises at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity; and controls a plurality of manipulators to raise or lower the workstring within the well bore to substantially match the work string trajectory input according to the work string control mode of operation. 8. The control system of claim 7, wherein the control mode input identifies a distributed load sequential mode, where a first manipulator and a second manipulator are controlled to concurrently grip the work string and to apply force to the work string in the same direction at the same time. 9. The control system of claim 7, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed sequential mode, where a first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with a second manipulator and wherein the work string is moved by the first manipulator and the second manipulator in a sequence of start and stop actions. 10. The control system of claim 7, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed continuous mode, where a first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with a second manipulator and wherein the work string is moved by the first manipulator and second manipulator with a substantially constant velocity. 11. The control system of claim 7, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed constrained mode, where a first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with a second manipulator to achieve a maximum hand-off speed between the first manipulator and the second manipulator. 12. The control system of claim 7, wherein the application further receives a pipe collar indication and controls the plurality of manipulators based further on the pipe collar indication. 13. A system for servicing a well bore with a work string, comprising: a first manipulator for gripping and moving the work string in the well bore; a first manipulator drive for providing power to the first manipulator; a second manipulator for gripping and moving the work string in the well bore; a second manipulator drive for providing power to the second manipulator; a controller comprising a processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory, wherein the controller is coupled to the first manipulator drive and to the second manipulator drive, wherein the application when executed by the processor receives a control mode input from a user interface, wherein the control mode input identifies a work string control mode of operation; receives a work string trajectory input from the user interface, wherein the work string trajectory input comprises at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity; and controls the first manipulator drive and the second manipulator drive to raise or lower the workstring within the well bore to substantially match the work string trajectory input according to the work string control mode of operation. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the control mode input identifies a distributed load sequential mode, where the first manipulator and the second manipulator are controlled to concurrently grip the work string and to apply force to the work string in the same direction at the same time. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed sequential mode, where the first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with the second manipulator and wherein the work string is moved by the first manipulator and the second manipulator in a sequence of start and stop actions. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed continuous mode, where the first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with the second manipulator and wherein the work string is moved by the first manipulator and second manipulator with a substantially constant velocity. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the control mode input identifies a high speed constrained mode, where the first manipulator trades off gripping the work string with the second manipulator to achieve a maximum hand-off speed between the first manipulator and the second manipulator. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein the application further receives a pipe collar indication and controls the plurality of manipulators based further on the pipe collar indication. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the first manipulator drive provides hydraulic power to the first manipulator and the second manipulator drive provides hydraulic power to the second manipulator. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein the first manipulator drive provides electric power to the first manipulator and the second manipulator drive provides electric power to the second manipulator. 