Liquid detection sensors are attached to both sides of a robotic arm end effector of a semiconductor wafer process system. The sensor mechanism or probe is situated on the front side and backside of the end effector, designed with electrical lines that are traced onto a polyester base material. The electrical lines are positioned in a serpentine formation. The high conductance of the sulfuric acid in the copper sulfate solution acts as the conductor between the traced lines. When the conductive liquid comes in contact with the traced lines, the lines short and the sensor activates or turns on.
Claims Thus, having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring liquid contaminants in a semiconductor wafer fabrication process comprising a sensor having a sensing mechanism situated in its entirety on an end effector said end effector holding said semiconductor wafer, said sensing mechanism including metal traces bonded on said end effector and traversing about the entire periphery of said semiconductor wafer, said sensor detecting conductivity changes in said liquid contaminants when said liquid contaminants come in contact with said sensing mechanism. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising said sensing mechanism having metal traces bonded in a serpentine pattern on said end effector. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 including having said sensing mechanism further comprise metal traces bonded on the backside of said end effector. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 including having said sensing mechanism further comprise metal traces bonded on the front side of said end effector. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensing mechanism further comprises metal traces of platinum, palladium, tantalum, gold, or titanium. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising said sensing mechanism traced onto a polyimide base material. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said liquid contaminants act as a conductor to said sensor, electrically shorting said sensing mechanism. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor is applied to said end effector by an adhesive. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising electronics connected to said sensing mechanism and completing a sensor circuit, said electronics capable of distinguishing changes in conductivity or resistivity. 10. A sensor for detecting a conductive liquid exposed to a semiconductor wafer within a semiconductor wafer process comprising: an electronic circuit detecting changes in electrical conductivity; a sensor probe comprising at least one metal trace connected to said electronic circuit, said at least one metal trace exposed on at least one side to come in contact with said conductive liquid and bonded about the entire periphery of said semiconductor wafer and mounted on an end effector; and, said end effector attached to a robotic arm, said end effector holding said semiconductor wafer, and having a front side and a backside, and adhesively holding said at least one metal trace, said sensor probe mounted on said end effector and detecting conductivity changes in said liquid when said liquid comes in contact with said sensor probe. 11. The sensor of claim 10 further comprising having said at least one metal trace bonded in a serpentine pattern on said end effector. 12. The sensor of claim 11 including said at least one metal trace bonded on said backside and said front side of said end effector. 13. The sensor of claim 10 having said at least one metal trace comprising platinum, palladium, tantalum, gold, or titanium. 14. The sensor of claim 10 wherein said electronic circuit comprises circuitry for measuring changes in electrical conductivity of said conductive liquid. 15. The sensor of claim 10 wherein said sensor probe further includes said at least one metal trace having approximately 0.020'' to 0.050'' line pitch. 16. The sensor of claim 10 wherein said sensor probe further comprises said at least one metal trace having a line width of 0.015'' and a line height of approximately 0.002'' to 0.003''. 17. The sensor of claim 10 wherein said sensor probe further comprises said at least one metal trace having a spacing of 0.020'' from said wafer to the top of said at least one metal trace. 18. The sensor of claim 10 wherein said sensor probe is fabricated from a photo chemical machined (PCM) process. 19. The sensor of claim 10 further comprising a polyimide back adhesive to secure said sensor probe to said end effector. 20. An apparatus for measuring liquid contaminants in a semiconductor wafer fabrication process comprising a sensor having a sensing mechanism situated in its entirety on an end effector, said end effector holding said semiconductor wafer, said sensing mechanism including metal traces bonded on said end effector and traversing about the entire periphery of said semiconductor wafer, said metal traces having approximately a 2 mm stack thickness, said sensor detecting conductivity changes in said liquid contaminants when said liquid contaminants come in contact with said sensing mechanism. 