A system, apparatus and application for providing robots with the ability to intelligently respond to perceived situations are described. A knowledge database is assembled automatically, based on distributed knowledge capture. The knowledge base embodies the "common sense," that is, the consensus, of the subjects who contribute the knowledge. Systems are provided to automatically preprocess, or "clean" the information to make it more useful. The knowledge thus refined is utilized to construct a multidimensional semantic network, or MSN. The MSN provides a compact and efficient semantic representation suitable for extraction of knowledge for inference purposes and serves as the basis for task and response selection. When the robot perceives a situation that warrants a response, an appropriate subset of the MSN is extracted into a Bayes network. The resultant network is refined, and used to derive a set of response probabilities, which the robot uses to formulate a response.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer based method for analyzing a knowledge database, comprising the steps of: receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique; synthesizing a multidimensional semantic net (MSN) including two or more nodes and one or more edges connecting two or more nodes from said data; generating an expanded MSN by retrieving supplemental data from one or more auxiliary sources and adding one or more edges associating the supplemental data with a node to the MSN; determining semantic relationships between said nodes; adding edges to the expanded MSN associating the supplemental data with a node included in the expanded MSN based on said semantic relationships; removing an added edge having a semantic relationship from a group comprising non-bidirectional synonyms, hypernym pairs or hyponym pairs; deriving a Bayes network from said expanded MSN, the Bayes network including a plurality of groups, each group including a situation, a response describing an action and a relative probability describing an association between the situation and the response; selecting a group having a maximum relative probability from the plurality of groups; and storing a response included in the group having the maximum probability in a computer readable memory. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving data further comprises receiving said data from multiple users or from multiple locations. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said distributed capture technique comprises the step of prompting a plurality of users to supply one or more words in response to a query. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of associating causality and response relations to one or more situations. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of processing said data, including at least one of: checking a spelling of a word; removing a template by eliminating a non-essential word; tagging a part of speech to a word; lemmatizing a word into its root form; chunking two or more tagged words into a tagged phrase; or removing extraneous data. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said two or more nodes comprise at least one of: object, property, atom action, action, or situation. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein each said relative probability is calculated from a frequency of said data within the knowledge database. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said nodes further comprise situation nodes and response nodes. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the auxiliary source comprises a thesaurus or a lexical database. 10. A system for analyzing a knowledge database, comprising: means for receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique; means for synthesizing a multidimensional semantic net (MSN) including two or more nodes and one or more edges connecting two or more nodes from said data; means for generating an expanded MSN by retrieving supplemental data from one or more auxiliary sources and adding one or more edges associating the supplemental data with a node to the MSN; means for determining semantic relationships between said nodes; means for adding edges to the expanded MSN associating the supplemental data with a node included in the expanded MSN based on said semantic relationships; means for removing an added edge having a semantic relationship from a group comprising non-bidirectional synonyms, hypernym pairs or hyponym pairs; means for deriving a Bayes network from said expanded MSN, the Bayes network including a plurality of groups, each group including a situation, a response describing an action and a relative probability describing an association between the situation and the response; means for selecting a group having a maximum relative probability from the plurality of groups; and means for storing a response included in the group having the maximum relative probability in a computer readable memory. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said means for receiving data further comprises receiving data from multiple users or from multiple locations. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said distributed capture technique comprises means for prompting a plurality of users to supply one or more words in response to a query. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein said means for receiving data further comprises means for associating causality and response relations to one or more situations. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein said means for receiving data further comprises means for processing said data, including at least one of: means for checking a spelling of a word; means for removing a template by eliminating a non-essential word; means for tagging a part of speech to a word; means for lemmatizing a word into its root form; means for chunking to combine two or more tagged words into a tagged phrase; or means for removing extraneous data. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein said two or more nodes comprise at least one of: object, property, atom action, action, or situation. 16. The system of claim 10, wherein each said relative probability is calculated from a frequency of said data within the knowledge database. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said nodes further comprise situation nodes and response nodes. 18. The system of claim 10, wherein the auxiliary source comprises a thesaurus or a lexical database. 19. A computer readable storage medium tangibly storing computer program instructions and data for implementing a method for analyzing a knowledge database, the method comprising the steps of: receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique; synthesizing a multidimensional semantic net (MSN) including two or more nodes and one or more edges connecting two or more nodes from said data; generating an expanded MSN by retrieving supplemental data from one or more auxiliary sources and adding one or more edges associating the supplemental data with a node to the MSN; determining semantic relationships between said nodes; adding edges to the expanded MSN associating the supplemental data with a node included in the expanded MSN based on said semantic relationships; removing an added edge having a semantic relationship from a group comprising non-bidirectional synonyms, hypernym pairs or hyponym pairs; deriving a Bayes network from said expanded MSN, the Bayes network including a plurality of groups, each group including a situation, a response describing an action and a relative probability describing an association between the situation and the response; selecting a group having a maximum relative probability from the plurality of groups; and storing a response included in the group having the maximum probability in a computer readable memory. 20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the step of receiving data further comprises receiving said data from multiple users or from multiple locations. 21. The computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein said distributed capture technique comprises the step of prompting a plurality of users to supply one or more words in response to a query. 22. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein said receiving data further comprises the steps of associating causality and response relations to one or more situations. 23. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein said receiving data further comprises the step of processing said data, including at least one of the steps of: checking a spelling of a word; removing a template by eliminating a non-essential word; tagging a part of speech to a word; lemmatizing a word into its root form; chunking two or more tagged words into a tagged phrase; or removing extraneous data. 24. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein said two or more nodes comprise at least one of object, property, atom action, action, or situation. 25. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein each said relative probability is calculated from a frequency of said data within the knowledge database. 26. The computer readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein said nodes further comprise situation nodes and response nodes. 27. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19 wherein the auxiliary source comprises a thesaurus or a lexical database. 