A system, method and corresponding apparatus are provided for storing, retrieving and delivering unit dose blisters in their natural, raw state (i.e., without over-wrapping or repackaging). In particular, a plurality of unit dose blister mounts are configured to position a corresponding plurality of different types of unit dose blisters in a predetermined, repeatable orientation, so that they can be retrieved and delivered using, for example, an automated retrieval system. The storage apparatus (or unit dose blister mount) may include a cavity that is configured to receive a unit dose medication or medication cavity of the unit dose blister in such a way that the unit dose blister lies substantially flat in the horizontal plane, enabling any identification information displayed on the underside of the unit dose blister (i.e., the side opposite the unit dose medication, or medication cavity) to be viewed.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method of scanning an identification code of an unknown orientation, said method comprising: locating an edge of a surface of an item on which the identification code is displayed, wherein the item is located in a carrier, and locating the edge of the surface of the item comprises locating the edge of the item based at least in part on a contrast in brightness between the surface of the item and the carrier; and scanning one or more optical signals across the item in a predefined direction relative to the edge. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predefined direction is selected from a group consisting of substantially parallel to the edge and substantially perpendicular to the edge. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: continuing to scan the optical signals across the item in the predefined direction relative to the edge until the identification code is located or substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising, where substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned and the identification code has not been located: scanning one or more optical signals across the item in a direction substantially perpendicular to the predefined direction relative to the edge until the identification code is located. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the item comprises a unit dose package configured to hold a unit dose medication, and wherein the carrier comprises a unit dose package mount configured to position a plurality of different types of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that respective unit dose packages are repeatably maintained in a predetermined plane. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein scanning the optical signals across the item comprises generating a plurality of optical signals and directing the optical signals to the item, such that the optical signals form an oblique angle with respect to the item upon reflection off of the item. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising: automatically changing a focal distance associated with the optical signals. 8. A system for scanning an identification code of an unknown orientation, said system comprising: a carrier configured to hold an item; a code reader configured to locate an edge of a surface of the item on which the identification code is displayed based at least in part on a contrast in brightness between the surface of the item and the carrier; and scanning one or more optical signals across the item in a predefined direction relative to the edge. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the predefined direction is selected from a group consisting of substantially parallel to the edge and substantially perpendicular to the edge. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the code reader is further configured to continue scanning the optical signals across the item in the predefined direction relative to the edge until the identification code is located or substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned. 11. The system of claim system of claim 10, wherein the code reader is further configured, where substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned and the identification code has not been located, to scan one or more optical signals across the item in a direction substantially perpendicular to the predefined direction relative to the edge until the identification code is located. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein the item comprises a unit dose package configured to hold a unit dose medication, and wherein the carrier comprises a unit dose package mount configured to position a plurality of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that respective unit dose packages are repeatedly maintained in a predetermined plane, said system comprising a system for retrieving and delivering the plurality of unit dose packages. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein, in order to scan the optical signals across the item, the code reader is further configured to generate a plurality of optical signals and to direct the optical signals to the item, such that the optical signals form an oblique angle with respect to the item upon reflection off of the item. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the code reader is further configured to change a focal distance associated with the optical signals. 15. A system for scanning an identification code of an unknown orientation, said system comprising: a carrier configured to hold an item displaying an identification code on a surface of the item; and a code reader configured to locate at least a first and a second edge of the surface of the item based at least in part on a contrast in brightness between the surface of the item and the carrier, wherein the first edge is substantially perpendicular to the second edge, said code reader further configured to scan one or more optical signals across the item in a direction substantially parallel to the first edge of the surface until the identification code is located or substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned, said code reader further configured, where substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned and the identification code has not been located, to scan one or more optical signals across the item in a direction substantially parallel to the second edge until the identification code is located. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the item comprises a unit dose package configured to hold a unit dose medication, and wherein the carrier comprises a unit dose package mount configured to position a plurality of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that respective unit dose packages are repeatedly maintained in a predetermined plane, said system comprising a system for retrieving and delivering the plurality of unit dose packages. 17. An apparatus for scanning an identification code of an unknown orientation, said apparatus comprising: a carrier configured to hold an item; means for locating an edge of a surface of the item on which the identification code is displayed based at least in part on a contrast in brightness between the surface of the item and the carrier; and means for scanning one or more optical signals across the item in a predefined direction relative to the edge. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the predefined direction is selected from a group consisting of substantially parallel to the edge and substantially perpendicular to the edge. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: means for continuing to scan the optical signals across the item in the predefined direction relative to the edge until the identification code is located or substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising, where substantially the entire surface of the item has been scanned and the identification code has not been located: means for scanning one or more optical signals across the item in a direction substantially perpendicular to the predefined direction relative to the edge until the identification code is located. 21. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the item comprises a unit dose package configured to hold a unit dose medication, and wherein the carrier comprises a unit dose package mount configured to position a plurality of different types of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that respective unit dose packages are repeatably maintained in a predetermined plane. 22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the means for scanning the optical signals across the item comprises a code reader configured to generate a plurality of optical signals and to direct the optical signals to the item, such that the optical signals form an oblique angle with respect to the item upon reflection off of the item. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising: means for automatically changing a focal distance associated with the optical signals. 