A medical probe and medical system are provided. The medical probe comprises an elongated shaft, a plurality of electromagnetic elements spaced along the elongated shaft, and a plurality of wires extending through the elongated shaft and configured for energizing the electromagnetic elements that actuate a controlled bending of the elongated shaft. The medical system may comprise the medical probe and a controller configured for energizing the electromagnetic elements via the wires to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. The medical system may optionally comprise a user interface configured for conveying commands to the controller, in which case, the controller will be configured for energizing the electromagnetic elements via the wires to actuate a controlled bending of the elongated shaft in response to the commands.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical probe, comprising: an elongated shaft; a plurality of electromagnetic elements spaced along the elongated shaft; and a plurality of wires extending through the elongated shaft and configured for energizing the electromagnetic elements that actuate a controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 2. The medical probe of claim 1, wherein the elongated shaft is an intravascular shaft. 3. The medical probe of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic elements are electromagnetic rings. 4. The medical probe of claim 1, further comprising a lumen within the elongated shaft, wherein the electromagnetic elements are spaced within the lumen. 5. The medical probe of claim 1, wherein distal ends of the wires are respectively wound around the electromagnetic elements. 6. The medical probe of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic elements attract each other when energized to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 7. The medical probe of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic elements repel each other when energized to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 8. The medical probe of claim 3, wherein portions of the electromagnetic rings attract each other and other portions of the electromagnetic rings repel each other to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 9. A medical system, comprising: a medical probe having an elongated shaft, a plurality of electromagnetic elements spaced along the elongated shaft, and a plurality of wires extending through the elongated shaft; and a controller is configured for energizing the electromagnetic elements via the wires to actuate a controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 10. The medical system of claim 9, wherein the medical probe is an intravascular catheter. 11. The medical system of claim 9, wherein the electromagnetic elements are electromagnetic rings. 12. The medical system of claim 9, further comprising a lumen within the elongated shaft, wherein the electromagnetic elements are spaced within the lumen. 13. The medical system of claim 9, wherein distal ends of the wires are respectively wound around the electromagnetic elements. 14. The medical system of claim 9, wherein the electromagnetic elements attract each other when energized to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 15. The medical system of claim 9, wherein the electromagnetic elements repel each other when energized to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 16. The medical system of claim 11, wherein portions of the electromagnetic rings attract each other and other portions of the electromagnetic rings repel each other to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft. 17. The medical system of claim 9, further comprising a user interface configured for conveying commands to the controller, wherein the controller is configured for energizing the electromagnetic elements via the wires to actuate a controlled bending of the elongated shaft in response to the commands. 18. The medical system of claim 17, wherein the controlled bending of the elongated shaft corresponds to movements at the user interface. 19. A medical system, comprising: an elongated shaft; a plurality of magnetic elements spaced along the elongated shaft; and an electrical controller configured to actuate a controlled bending of the elongated shaft in accordance with an electrical current output from the electrical controller. 20. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the medical probe is an intravascular catheter. 21. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the magnetic elements are magnetic rings. 22. The medical system of claim 19, further comprising a lumen within the elongated shaft, wherein the magnetic elements are spaced within the lumen. 23. The medical system of claim 19, further comprising a user interface configured for conveying commands to the controller, wherein the controller is configured for outputting the electrical current to actuate the controlled bending of the elongated shaft in response to the commands. 24. The medical system of claim 23, wherein the controlled bending of the elongated shaft corresponds to movements at the user interface. 