Conventional robot apparatus etc. can not perform name-learning naturally. Learning the name of an object is performed such a manner that the name of a target object is obtained through dialog with a human being, the name is stored in association with plural items of different characteristic data detected for the target object, and a new object is recognized based on the stored data and associative information, the name and characteristic data of the new person are obtained and this associative information is stored.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Learning equipment comprising: dialog means for obtaining a name of a target object through dialog; a plurality of recognition means for detecting a plurality of characteristic data of said target object, and for recognizing the target object based on a detection result and corresponding characteristic data of a known object; storage means for storing associative information relating recognition results of said recognition means for a name of said known object; judgment means for judging based on the name of said target object obtained by said dialog means, recognition results of said recognition means for said target object, and said associative information stored in said storage means, whether or not said target object is a new object, wherein the dialog means determines a content of the dialog with a user based on a face recognition result obtained by one of the plurality of recognition means, wherein when the recognition means recognizes a name of the user through a morphological characteristic of a face of the user, the dialog means obtains a confirmation of the recognized name from the user through dialog, wherein when the recognition means fails to recognize a name of the user through a morphological characteristic of a face of the user, the dialog means asks the user for the user's name through dialog, wherein the associative information relates the name to at least a sound identifier and a face identifier of the target object, and wherein when the name of said target object obtained by the dialog means is different than a name obtained by the recognition results, the judgment means determines that target object is a new object; and control means for storing said plurality of characteristic data on said target object in corresponding said recognition means and storing associative information on the target object in said storage means when said judgment means judges that said target object is a new object. 2. The learning equipment according to claim 1, wherein said control means controls said recognition means which recognized said target object correctly, to perform addition-learning when said judgment means judges that the target object is said known object. 3. The learning equipment according to claim 1, wherein said control means controls said recognition means which did not recognize said target object correctly, to perform correction-learning when said judgment means judges that the target object is said known object. 4. The learning equipment according to claim 1, wherein said judgment means judges by referring to said associative information stored in said storage means whether or not said target object is a new object, by a majority decision of the name of said target object obtained by said dialog means and recognition results of said recognition means for the object. 5. The learning equipment according to claim 1, wherein said control means controls said dialog means to protract said dialog according to necessity. 6. A computer-implemented learning method comprising: a dialog step of obtaining a name of a target object through dialog; a plurality of recognition steps of detecting a plurality of characteristic data of said target object and recognizing the target object based on detection result and corresponding characteristic data of a known object; a storage step of storing associative information relating recognition results of said recognition steps for a name of said known object; a judgment step of judging based on the name of said target object obtained by said dialog step, recognition results of said recognition step for the target object, and said associative information stored in said storage step, whether or not said target object is a new object; an associating step of associating the name to at least a sound identifier and a face identifier of the target object, and, wherein the dialog step determines a content of the dialog with a user based on a face recognition result obtained by one of the plurality of recognition steps, wherein when the recognition step recognizes a name of the user through a morphological characteristic of a face of the user, the dialog steps obtains a confirmation of the recognized name from the user through dialog, wherein when the recognition step fails to recognize a name of the user through a morphological characteristic of a face of the user, the dialog step asks the user for the user's name through dialog, wherein when the name of said target object obtained by the dialog means is different than a name obtained by the recognition results, the judgment step determines that target object is a new object; and a control step of storing said plurality of characteristic data on said target object in corresponding said recognition step and storing associative information on the target object in said storage step when said judgment step judges that the target object is a new object. 7. The learning method according to claim 6, wherein, in said control step, when said target object is judged to be said known object, addition-learning is performed for said characteristics of the target object recognized correctly. 8. The learning method according to claim 6, wherein, in said control step, when said target object is judged to be said known object, correction-learning is performed for said characteristics of the target object not recognized correctly. 9. The learning method according to claim 6, wherein, in said judgment step, it is judged by referring to said associative information whether or not said target object is a new object, by a majority decision of the name of said target object and recognition results on said characteristics of the object. 10. The learning method according to claim 6, wherein, in said dialog step, the dialog is protracted according to necessity. 11. A robot apparatus comprising: dialog means of obtaining a name of a target object through dialog; a plurality of recognition means for detecting a plurality of characteristic data of said target object, and for recognizing said target object based on detection result and corresponding characteristic data of a known object; storage means for storing associative information relating recognition results of said recognition means for a name of said known object; judgment means for judging based on the name of said target object obtained by said dialog means, recognition results of said recognition means for the target object, and said associative information stored in said storage means, whether or not said target object is a new object, wherein the dialog means determines a content of the dialog with a user based on a face recognition result obtained by one of the plurality of recognition means, wherein when the recognition means recognizes a name of the user through a morphological characteristic of a face of the user, the dialog means obtains a confirmation of the recognized name from the user through dialog, wherein when the recognition means fails to recognize a name of the user through a morphological characteristic of a face of the user, the dialog means asks the user for the user's name through dialog, wherein the associative information relates the name to at least a sound identifier and a face identifier of the object, and wherein when the name of said target object obtained by the dialog means is different than a name obtained by the recognition results, the judgment means determines that target object is a new object; and control means for storing said plurality of characteristic data on said target object in corresponding said recognition means and storing associative information on the target object in said storage means when said judgment means judges that said target object is a new object. 12. The robot apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said control means controls said recognition means which recognized said target object correctly, to perform addition-learning when said judgment means judges that the target object is said known object. 13. The robot apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said control means controls said recognition means which did not recognize said target object correctly, to perform correction-learning when said judgment means judges that the target object is said known object. 14. The robot apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said judgment means judges by referring to said associative information stored in said storage means whether or not said target object is said new object, by a majority decision of the name of said target object obtained by said dialog means and the recognition results of said recognition means for the object. 15. The robot apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said control means controls the dialog means to protract said dialog according to necessity. 