A method for generating a haptic interactive representation including the steps of defining a haptic interaction space and building a hierarchical construct, for use within the haptic interaction space, using a plurality of underlying constructs. In one embodiment the method includes determining the forces to be applied to a user by generating a haptic interactive, sensing a position of a user in real space, determining a haptic interface location in the haptic interaction space in response to the position of the user in real space and determining whether the virtual object collides with the haptic interface location. The invention also relates to a method for interacting with a haptic interactive representation. The method includes creating a haptic process having the haptic interactive representation, associating a callback with the haptic process, connecting to a second process which interacts with the haptic process and associating the callback which is associated with the haptic process with the second process. The method further includes requesting the callback by the second process, and returning, by the haptic process through the callback to the second process, at least one parameter associated with the haptic interactive representation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for delivering force feedback to a user according to an interaction in a haptic interaction space, the method comprising: defining said haptic interaction space; defining a graphics space; rendering a plurality of virtual objects in said haptic interaction space, wherein said plurality of virtual objects comprises at least two members selected from the group consisting of a primitive object, a polygonal object, an algebraic object, a constructed solid geometry object, an algebraic surface representation, and a volumetric object representation; delivering force feedback to said user at a first rate through a haptic interface device according to said interaction in said haptic interaction space; and depicting said interaction in said graphics space by refreshing a graphics display at a second rate less than said first rate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of virtual objects is a voxel representation. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the rendering step comprises storing said plurality of virtual objects. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the rendering step comprises displaying said plurality of virtual objects. 