The invention relates to nucleic acids encoding polypeptides having amylase activity, and methods for making and using them. In one aspect, the polypeptides having amylase activity have increased activity and stability at acidic, neutral and alkaline pH and increased temperature. In one aspect, the invention provides methods for producing an alcohol, for producing a high-maltose or a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup, for liquifying a starch-comprising composition, comprising use of polypeptides encoded by the nucleic acids of this invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid comprising: (a) the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:41; (b) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:42, or wherein the polypeptide is an enzymatically active portion of SEQ ID NO:2 comprising at least 150 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO:42; or, (c) a nucleic acid sequence completely complementary to the sequence of (a) or (b). 2. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the sequence comparison is determined by analysis with a sequence comparison algorithm or by visual inspection. 3. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 2, wherein the sequence comparison algorithm comprises FASTA version 3.0t78 with the default parameters. 4. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity and at least 96% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42. 5. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 4, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity and at least 97% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42. 6. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity and at least 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42. 7. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 6, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity and at least 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42. 8. A vector comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1. 9. The vector of claim 8, wherein the vector comprises a viral vector, a plasmid vector, a phage vector, a phagemid vector, a cosmid, a fosmid, a bacteriophage, an artificial chromosome, an adenovirus vector, a retroviral vector or an adeno-associated viral vector. 10. The vector of claim 8, wherein the vector comprises a cloning vector or an expression vector. 11. An isolated non-human host cell comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1. 12. An isolated non-human host cell comprising the vector of claim 8. 13. The host cell of claim 11, or claim 12, wherein the cell is a prokaryotic cell, a eukaryotic cell, a mammalian cell, an insect cell, a Drosophila cell, a plant cell, a bacterial cell, an E. coli cell, a Streptomyces cell, a Bacillus subtilis cell, a Salmonella typhimurium cell, a cell species within the genera Pseudomonas, Streptomyces or Staphylococcus, a fungal cell, or a yeast cell. 14. A method of producing a recombinant nucleic acid comprising expressing in a host cell the nucleic acid of claim. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the cell is a prokaryotic cell, a eukaryotic cell, a mammalian cell, an insect cell, a Drosophila cell, a plant cell, a bacterial cell, an E. coli cell, a Streptomyces cell, a Bacillus subtilis cell, a Salmonella typhimurium cell, a cell species within the genera Pseudomonas, Streptomyces or Staphylococcus, a fungal cell, or a yeast cell. 16. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid further comprises a sequence encoding a heterologous peptide or polypeptide. 17. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 16, wherein the heterologous peptide or polypeptide comprises an N-terminal identification peptide or a peptide which imparts increased stability or simplified purification. 18. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 16, wherein the heterologous peptide or polypeptide comprises a heterologous signal sequence. 19. A plant cell comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1. 20. A plant cell comprising the vector of claim 8. 21. An isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:42 or a portion thereof having alpha-amylase activity. 