A robot multi-arm control system includes robot controllers that communicate via a network to transmit synchronization information from a master controller to one or more slave controllers in order to coordinate manufacturing processes. The system accounts for the network communication delay when synchronizing the event timing for process and motion synchronization.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for motion synchronization and coordination of a family of robots including at least two robot arms comprising: a master robot arm connected to a master controller having a data area in which robot family information is stored; at least one slave robot arm connected to a slave controller having a data area in which said robot family information is stored; a network connection between said master controller and said at least one slave controller for transmitting signals; and a master program stored in said data area of said master controller and a slave program stored in said data area of said at least one slave controller, said master program and said slave program each containing program instructions to be executed for coordinated operations of said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm respectively, wherein said robot family information identifies said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm as members of a robot family for execution of each of the program instructions to perform the coordinated operations with motion synchronization, and wherein in response to a first said program instruction having a first motion duration to be performed by said master robot arm in motion synchronization with a second said program instruction having a second motion duration to be performed by said slave robot arm, said first and second motion durations being different, said master program changes a shorter one of said first and second motion durations to a longer one of said first and second motion durations whereby said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm start and stop motion according to said first and second program instructions with a common duration. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said robot family information is stored in a header of said master program and in a header of said slave program. 3. The system according to claim 1 including means for generating a master tick count from said master controller and means for generating a shadow tick count from said slave controller, said shadow tick count representing said master tick count as a common time reference. 4. The system according to claim 3 wherein said master controller and said slave controller execute said program instructions in coordination with a predetermined integer of said master tick count and a generation of an integer of said shadow tick count closest to said predetermined integer. 5. The system according to claim 1 including a set of guide rules stored in at least one of said master controller and said slave controller and wherein said master controller and said slave controller execute said program instructions according to said set of guide rules. 6. The system according to claim 5 wherein said master controller and said slave controller synchronize stopping of movement of said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm based upon a longer one of associated deceleration times according to said set of guide rules. 7. The system according to claim 5 wherein said master controller and said slave controller synchronize resumption of movement of said master robot arm and said at least one robot arm after a stop based upon a common start time according to said set of guide rules. 8. The system according to claim 5 wherein said master controller and said slave controller synchronize single step operation of said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm according to said set of guide rules. 9. A method of controlling motion synchronization and coordination of a family of robots having at least one controller, at least two robot arms and associated control programs comprising the steps of: connecting a controller with a means for exchanging data; storing the associated control program having program instructions for each of the at least two robot arms in a data area in the controller; storing in the controller a plurality of guide rules that direct execution of the associated control programs; selecting a set of the guide rules from the plurality of guide rules according to the type of the associated control program; and executing the associated control programs according to the set of guide rules to generate data through the network connection to synchronize and coordinate motion of the at least two robot arms, wherein in response to a first one of the program instructions having a first motion duration to be performed by one of the at least two robot arms in motion synchronization with a second one of the program instructions having a second motion duration to be performed by another one of the at least two robot arms, the first and second motion durations being different, changing a shorter one of the first and second motion durations to a longer one of the first and second motion durations whereby the at least two robot arms start and stop motion according to the first and second program instructions with a common duration. 10. The method according to claim 9 wherein the at least two robot arms comprise a family of robots with one of the robot arms being a family head robot and another of the robot arms being a family member robot. 11. The method according to claim 9 wherein the data area is part of a program header of each of the associated control programs and the program header identifies the at least two robot arms as being included a robot family. 12. The method according to claim 9 including synchronizing at least one of motion of the at least two robot arms and application processes performed by the at least two robot arms. 13. The method according to claim 12 including synchronizing the motion at at least one of a start and an end of the motion. 14. The method according to claim 12 including synchronizing the application processes at at least one of a start and an end of the application processes. 15. The method according to claim 9 including performing at least one of forward program execution and backward program execution according to the guide rules. 16. The method according to claim 9 including responding to an external input to synchronize operation of the at least two robot arms. 17. The method according to claim 9 including communicating the data during successive intervals wherein the data which might be lost due to a communication failure during one of the intervals is available for recovery from at least one subsequent one of the intervals. 18. The method according to claim 9 wherein the guide rules include rules for synchronization of at least one of a motion stopping sequence, a start of motion deceleration, an end of motion deceleration, a resume sequence, a returning to positions where motion was stopped and exception handling. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the synchronization of exception handling includes communicating exception information between the at least two robots. 20. The method according to claim 9 including generating tick counts to account for delay in the communication of the data through the means for exchanging data. 21. The method according to claim 9 including communicating the data through the means for exchanging data at periodic intervals. 22. A system for motion synchronization and coordination of a family of robots including at least two robot arms comprising: a master robot arm connected to a master controller having a data area in which robot family information is stored; at least one slave robot arm connected to a slave controller having a data area in which said robot family information is stored; a network connection between said master controller and said at least one slave controller for transmitting signals; a master program stored in said data area of said master controller and a set of slave programs stored in said data area of said at least one slave controller, said master program and said set of slave programs each containing program instructions to be executed for coordinated operations of said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm respectively, and wherein said robot family information identifies said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm as members of a robot family for execution of each of the program instructions related to the coordinated operations; and a set of guide rules stored in at least one of said master controller and said slave controller, wherein said master controller and said slave controller execute said program instructions according to said set of guide rules, and wherein said master controller and said slave controller synchronize at least one of stopping of movement of said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm based upon a longer one of associated deceleration times according to said set of guide rules, resumption of movement of said master robot arm and said at least one robot arm after a stop based upon a common start time according to said set of guide rules, and single step operation of said master robot arm and said at least one slave robot arm with simultaneous pausing or stopping according to said set of guide rules. 