A method is provided for performing a total knee arthroplasty. The method includes making a primary incision near a knee joint of a patient and resecting medial and lateral condyles of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface. The resecting step is performed without dislocating the knee joint. The method also includes balancing various ligament tensions to obtain desired tension and moving a femoral component of a total knee implant through the primary incision. The method further includes positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a total knee arthroplasty comprising: making a primary incision near a knee joint of a patient; resecting medial and lateral condyles, and the trochlear groove of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface, said cutting step performed without dislocating the knee joint; balancing various ligament tensions to obtain desired tension; moving a femoral component of a total knee implant operative to replace the articulating surfaces of at least one of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove through the primary incision; and positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the balancing step is performed to balance ligaments in flexion, extension and rotation. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the primary incision is located on a side surface of the knee joint, the side surface being one of medial and lateral relative to the centerline of the patient. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising the step of resecting a tibia of the leg to create at least one tibial cut surface, moving a tibial component of the total knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the tibial component with respect to the at least one tibial cut surface. 5. The method according to claim 4, further comprising the step of displacing a patella of the leg to an offset position so that the inner side of the patella remains in a position facing the femur. 6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising the step of resecting a portion of a patella to create a patellar cut surface, moving a patellar component of the total knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the patellar component with respect to the patellar cut surface. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the step of resecting the patella is performed before resecting the tibia and femur. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the primary incision is made when the knee joint of the leg is flexed. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended relative to an upper portion of the leg. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein said balancing step includes moving the lower portion of the leg with respect to the upper portion of the leg. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising moving a guide member through the primary incision and positioning the guide member against the femur, the guide member having a guide surface. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the resection step includes positioning a cutting tool in association with the guide surface of the guide member. 13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising the step of removing the guide member from the femur prior to completing the cut of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove and continuing the cut of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove while guiding the cutting tool along the at least one femoral cut surface. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than thirteen (13) centimeters. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than seven (7) centimeters. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising making a secondary incision near the knee joint of the leg, the secondary incision having a length less than the length of the primary incision, wherein both of the primary and secondary incisions are sized or located such that a quadriceps mechanism in the leg of the patient is preserved. 17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of moving an imaging device through the secondary incision. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the femoral component comprises a plurality of portions passable through the primary incision and assembleable within the body, each portion sized substantially smaller than the assembled femoral component. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of balancing further includes: changing at least one ligament by releasing ligaments that are too tight, or tightening ligaments that are too loose. 20. A method of performing a total knee arthroplasty comprising: making an incision in the knee joint of a leg; resecting at least a part of the articulating surfaces of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove of a femur to create a femoral cut surface, the femur being cut without extending any portion of the femur through said incision; resecting a tibia to create a tibial cut surface, the tibia being cut without extending any portion of the tibia through said incision; balancing a tension in at least one ligament located in said knee joint by changing at least one ligament by tensioning or releasing the ligament; positioning a femoral component of total knee implant with respect to the femoral cut surface; and positioning a tibial component of total knee implant with respect to the tibial cut surface. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein said balancing step includes balancing the ligaments in flexion, extension and rotation. 22. The method according to claim 21, further including the step of displacing a patella of the leg to an offset position so that the inner side of the patella remains in a position facing the femur. 23. The method according to claim 20, wherein the primary incision is located on a side surface of the knee joint, the side surface being one of medial and lateral relative to the centerline of the patient. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than thirteen (13) centimeters. 25. The method according to claim 23, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than seven (7) centimeters. 26. The method according to claim 20, further comprising the step of resecting a patella. 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the step of resecting the patella is performed before resecting the tibia and femur. 28. A method of performing a total knee arthroplasty comprising: making a primary incision in the knee joint of a leg, and carrying out the further steps, through the primary incision, of resecting at least a part of the articulating surfaces of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove of a femur to create a femoral cut surface, the femur being cut without extending any portion of the femur through the primary incision; resecting a tibia to create a tibial cut surface, the tibia being cut without extending any portion of the tibia through the primary incision; balancing a tension in at least one ligament located in said knee joint by changing a length of at least one ligament; passing a femoral component through the primary incision, the femoral component operative to replace the articulating surface of at least one of the medial and lateral condyles, or the trochlear groove; positioning a femoral component of total knee implant with respect to the femoral cut surface; and positioning a tibial component of total knee implant with respect to the tibial cut surface. 29. The method of claim 28, further including, in said step of balancing, the step of tightening or releasing a ligament. 30. The method of claim 28, further including the step of checking ligament balancing by rotating the lower portion of the leg about its central axis. 31. The method of claim 28, further including, prior to said step of balancing, the step of suspending a lower portion of the leg relative to an upper portion of the leg. 