A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for remote process control, comprising A. a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor coupled to one another by a network that comprises at least one of an Intranet and Internet, B. the server digital data processor being coupled to a process control apparatus and comprising (i) an information server for transferring information with the network and (ii) a command processor for transferring information between the network and the process control apparatus, said process control apparatus comprising control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, C. the client digital data processor comprising a web browser for defining a virtual machine environment, D. the information server selectively transfers a JAVA applet to the information client, E. the client digital data processor executes a JAVA applet within the virtual machine environment, the JAVA applet configuring the client digital data processor as a process controller for establishing communications over the network with the command processor, at least one of remotely monitoring and remotely controlling the process control apparatus via those communications. 2. A system for process control, comprising A. a first digital data processor executing a JAVA applet within a virtual machine environment, B. a command processor in communication coupling with a process control apparatus and with the first digital data processor, the command processor providing services for access to information regarding the process control apparatus, the process control apparatus comprising control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, B. the JAVA applet configuring the digital data processor to generate a message requesting services provided by the command processor in order to at least one of monitor and control the process control apparatus, at least one service including invoking a method in connection with at least one of monitoring and controlling a process control apparatus, and C. an command processor being coupled to an object manager that executes the method. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein A. the JAVA applet configures the digital data processor to generate a message for accessing information concerning the process control apparatus, and B. the object manager responds to that message for (i) invoking the method to access the such information, and (ii) generating a message to supply that information to the JAVA applet. 4. A system according to claim 3, comprising an information client executing on the first digital data processor, the information client configuring the first digital data processor to request and receive the JAVA applet for execution within the virtual machine environment. 5. A system according to claim 2, wherein the process control apparatus is disposed remotely with respect to the first digital data processor. 6. A system according to claim 2, comprising A. a second digital data processor coupled to the process control apparatus, and B. a network, coupled to the first and second digital data processors for transferring messages therebetween. 7. A system for process control, comprising A. a network, B. a server digital data processor coupled to the network and to a process control apparatus, the server digital data processor including a command processor for providing services for access to information regarding the process control apparatus, said process control apparatus comprising control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, C. a client digital data processor comprising an information client that establishes communications with the server digital data processor over the network, generates and transmits to the server digital data processor a request for an applet, and defines a virtual machine environment for execution of an applet received from the server digital data processor, D. the client digital data processor executing the applet within the virtual machine environment, the applet configuring the client digital data processor as a process controller for establishing communications over the network with the command processor and for generating requests for services provided by the command processor in order to at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein the command processor provides services for at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the process control apparatus, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 9. A system according to claim 7, wherein the client digital data processor and the server digital data processor are located remotely with respect to one another. 10. A system according to claim 7, wherein the server digital data processor selectively transfers the applet over the network to the client digital data processor for execution within the virtual environment defined thereby. 11. A system according to claim 7, wherein A. the process controller transfers requests over the network to the command processor for effecting a transfer of information regarding a status of the process control apparatus, and B. the command processor includes responds to such requests for generating information on the status of the process control apparatus for transferring that information to the process controller over the network. 12. A system according to claim 7, wherein A. the server digital data processor comprises an information server, and B. the information client establishes communications with the information server over the network. 13. A system according to claim 7, wherein the network comprises at least one of an Intranet and internet. 14. A system according to claim 7, wherein the applet comprises at least one of JAVA bytecode and an intermediate code for interpretation within the virtual machine environment that is hardware-independent, operating system-independent and windows system-independent. 15. A system according to claim 7, wherein the command processor comprises A. a JAVA application executing on the server digital data processor for transferring information at least one of to and from the network, B. a non-JAVA application program interface (API) for transferring information at least one of to and from the process control apparatus, and C. a JAVA/API application for transferring information between the JAVA application and the API. 