A compact cable tension tender device includes a movable member having a first stop and a second stop spaced apart from the first stop. A first attachment may be provided on the moveable member for cable that extends in a first direction. The first attachment may engage the first stop to limit the movement of the cable in the first direction relative to the movable member. A second attachment may be provided on the moveable member for cable that extends in a second direction. The second attachment may engage the second stop to limit the movement of the cable in the second direction relative to the movable member. A resilient coupler coupled to the first attachment and to the second attachment may urge the first attachment to move in the second direction and the second attachment to move in the first direction relative to each other to maintain cable tension.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tension tender device comprising: a drive shaft; a first plate coupled to the drive shaft and including a first drive stop in the form of an edge on the first plate; a second plate coupled to the drive shaft and including a second drive stop in the form of an edge on the second plate; a first pulley rotatably coupled to the drive shaft, the first pulley including a first recess having an edge that engages the first drive stop to rotate the drive shaft in a first direction when the first pulley is rotated in the first direction; a second pulley rotatably coupled to the drive shaft, the second pulley including a second recess having an edge that engages the second drive stop to rotate the drive shaft in a second direction opposite the first direction when the second pulley is rotated in the second direction, the recesses on the first and second pulleys facing away from each other; fasteners that couple the first plate to the second plate and pass through openings in the first and second pulleys such that the first and second plates rotatably couple the first and second pulleys to the drive shaft; and a resilient coupler coupled to the first pulley and to the second pulley, the resilient coupler that urges the first pulley to rotate in the second direction and that urges the second pulley to rotate in the first direction; a first cable coupled to the first pulley, the first cable having sufficient tension to rotate the first pulley in the first direction and cause the first stop to engage the first drive stop; and a second cable coupled to the second pulley, the second cable having sufficient tension to rotate the second pulley in the second direction and the second stop to engage the second drive stop. 2. The tension tender device of claim 1 further comprising: a motor coupled to rotate the drive shaft, the tension in the first and second cables minimizing lost motion when reversing a direction of rotation of the motor. 3. The tension tender device of claim 1 wherein the first drive stop and the second drive stop are part of a single structure. 4. The tension tender device of claim 1 wherein the first stop engages the first drive stop and the second stop engages the second drive stop to minimize lost motion when rotation of the drive shaft changes between the first direction and the second direction. 5. The tension tender device of claim 1 wherein the resilient coupler comprises a spring between the first and second pulleys. 6. The tension tender device of claim 1 wherein the resilient coupler comprises a circular spring wound around a spring axis parallel to the axis of rotation of the drive shaft. 7. A tension tender device comprising: a drive shaft; a first plate coupled to the drive shaft and including a first drive stop in the form of a flat edge on the first plate; a first pulley rotatably coupled to the drive shaft, the first pulley including a first stop in the form of a recess in a face of the first pulley, the recess comprising a flat edge perpendicular to the face of the first pulley, the flat edge engaging the first drive stop when the first pulley is rotated in a first direction; a second plate coupled to the drive shaft and including a second drive stop in the form of a flat edge on the second plate; a second pulley rotatably coupled to the drive shaft, the second pulley including a second stop in the form of a recess in a face of the second pulley, the recess comprising a flat edge perpendicular to the face of the second pulley, the flat edge engaging the second drive stop when the second pulley is rotated in a second direction opposite the first direction, the recesses on the first and second pulleys facing away from each other; fasteners that couple the first plate to the second plate and pass through openings in the first and second pulleys such that the first and second plates rotatably couple the first and second pulleys to the drive shaft; and a resilient coupler coupled to the first pulley and to the second pulley, wherein the resilient coupler urges the first pulley to rotate in the second direction and urges the second pulley to rotate in the first direction. 8. The tension tender device of claim 7 further comprising: a first cable coupled to the first pulley, the first cable having sufficient tension to rotate the first pulley in the first direction and cause the first stop to engage the first drive stop; and a second cable coupled to the second pulley, the second cable having sufficient tension to rotate the second pulley in the second direction and cause the second stop to engage the second drive stop. 9. The tension tender device of claim 8 further comprising a motor coupled to the drive shaft, the motor to rotate the drive shaft, tension in the first and second cables minimizing lost motion when reversing a direction of rotation of the motor. 10. The tension tender device of claim 7 wherein the resilient coupler comprises a spring between the first and second pulleys. 11. The tension tender device of claim 7 wherein the resilient coupler comprises a circular spring wound around a spring axis parallel to the axis of rotation of the drive shaft. 