Methods of forming an elongated composite structural member are provided. One method includes, providing a substantially elongated mandrel having an exterior surface exhibiting a desired geometry. Laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material over the mandrel. Applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply and then pressing the first ply onto the mandrel in a conformal manner. This includes passing at least one roller over the mandrel and the first ply while maintaining the desired amount of tension within the first ply. The at least one roller is at least partially complementary in shape with the mandrel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming an elongated composite structural member, the method comprising: providing a substantially elongated mandrel having an exterior surface exhibiting desired geometry the elongated mandrel further exhibiting an arcuate portion along at least one section of a length thereof; laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material over the mandrel; applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply, wherein applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply includes applying a force in a direction that is substantially tangent to a radius of curvature of the mandrel at a location where the first ply is being laid up on the mandrel; and pressing the first ply onto the mandrel in a conformal manner including passing at least one roller over the mandrel and the first ply while maintaining the desired amount of tension within the first ply, the at least one roller being at least partially complementary in shape with the mandrel. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising laying up a second ply of material over the first ply of material, applying a force to the second ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the second ply, and pressing the second ply onto the first ply in a conformal manner with the at least one roller while maintaining the desired amount of tension within the second ply. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein pressing the second ply onto the first ply includes consolidating both the first ply and the second ply. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising maintaining the first ply and the second ply in a substantially uncured state. 5. The method according to claim 2, wherein laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber material over the mandrel includes defining the first ply to exhibit a first fiber orientation and wherein laying up a second ply of material over the first ply of material includes defining the second ply of material to exhibit a second fiber orientation different from the first fiber orientation. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber material over the mandrel includes defining the first ply to exhibit a first width and wherein laying up a second ply of material over the first ply of material includes defining the second ply of material to exhibit a second width different from the first width. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein passing the at least one roller over the mandrel and the first ply includes sequentially passing a plurality of rollers over the mandrel and the first ply. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising configuring the plurality of rollers such that a first roller partially complementarily engages the mandrel over a first surface area of the mandrel and such that a second roller complementarily engages the mandrel over a second surface area of the mandrel. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply includes stretching a portion of the first ply along an area adjacent a first lateral edge of the first ply. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply includes preventing wrinkles from forming in the first ply along an area adjacent a second, opposing lateral edge of the first ply. 11. The method according to claim 9, further comprising applying a desired amount of heat to at least an area of the first ply adjacent the first lateral edge. 12. A method of forming an elongated composite structural member: providing a substantially elongated mandrel having an exterior surface exhibiting desired geometry, the elongated mandrel further exhibiting an arcuate portion along at least one section of a length thereof; laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material over the mandrel; applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply, wherein applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply includes applying a force in a direction that is approximately 89.degree. to 91.degree. relative to a radial centerline passing through the arcuate portion; and pressing the first ply onto the mandrel in a conformal manner including passing at least one roller over the mandrel and the first ply while maintaining the desired amount of tension within the first ply, the at least one roller being at least partially complementary in shape with the mandrel. 13. A method of forming an elongated composite structural member, the method comprising: providing a substantially elongated mandrel having an exterior surface exhibiting desired geometry; coupling the mandrel to a rotary table; laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material over the mandrel; applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply, pressing the first ply onto the mandrel in a conformal manner including passing at least one roller over the mandrel and the first ply while maintaining the desired amount of tension within the first ply, the at least one roller being at least partially complementary in shape with the mandrel; and coupling the at least one roller to a carriage assembly, and wherein passing the at least one roller over the mandrel and the first ply includes rotating the rotary table and the mandrel beneath the carriage assembly. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising tracking the mandrel with the carriage assembly while the rotary table rotates including displacing the carriage assembly in a radial direction relative to the rotary table. 15. The method according to claim 1, further comprising forming the elongated composite structural member to substantially exhibit a cross-sectional geometry of a hat as taken transverse to a length of the elongated member. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising forming the elongated composite structural member to substantially exhibit a cross-sectional geometry of at least one C-shape as taken transverse to a length of the elongated member. 17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising forming the elongated composite structural member to substantially exhibit a cross-sectional geometry of at least one angle as taken transverse to a length of the elongated member. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein laying up a first ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material includes laying up a first ply of fiber reinforced material impregnated with a thermosetting resin. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming the elongated composite structure member to substantially exhibit an asymmetrical geometry. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming the elongated composite structure member to have a cross-sectional geometry that varies along a length of the elongated member. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein laying up the one ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material over the mandrel further comprises: laying up the one ply of pre impregnated fiber having a flexible backing. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: removing the flexible backing after the first ply has been pressed onto the mandrel. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the flexible backing is a polymer backing. 24. A method of forming an asymmetric elongated composite structural member, the method comprising: providing a substantially elongated curved mandrel having an exterior surface exhibiting a desired asymmetrical geometry and a varied cross-sectional shape along a length of the elongated curved mandrel; laying up at least one ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material on the mandrel; applying a force to the at least one ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply, wherein applying a force to the first ply to establish a desired amount of tension within the first ply includes applying a force in a direction that is substantially tangent to a radius of curvature of the mandrel at a location where the first ply is being laid up on the mandrel; and pressing the at least one ply onto the mandrel in a conformal manner including passing at least one roller over the mandrel and the at least one ply while maintaining the desired amount of tension within the at least one ply, the at least one roller being at least partially complementary in shape with the mandrel. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein laying up the at least one ply of preimpregnated fiber reinforced material of the mandrel further comprises: laying up the at least one ply of preimpregnated fiber having a flexible backing. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: removing the flexible backing after the first ply has been pressed onto the mandrel. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the flexible backing is a polymer backing. 