An ultrasonic clamp coagulator assembly that is configured to permit selective cutting, coagulation and clamping of tissue during surgical procedures. An elongated portion of the instrument can be configured for endoscopic applications and has an outside diameter of less than 6 mm. The construction includes a clamping mechanism, including a clamp arm pivotally mounted at the distal portion of the instrument, which is specifically configured to create a desired level of tissue clamping forces, exceeding 4 pounds when the trigger is fully closed. The clamping mechanism includes a two-piece pad design and pad material that enables the higher tissue clamping forces and a force-limiting mechanism that effectively smooths out abusive tissue forces. The assembly also features hand activation configured to provide an ergonomical grip and operation for the surgeon. Hand switches are placed in the range of the natural swing of the surgeon's thumb, whether gripping the surgical instrument right-handed or left handed.
Claims We claim: 1. An ultrasonic surgical instrument comprising: a housing for accepting a transducer wherein the housing defines a first housing surface and a second housing surface; a first switch positioned on the first housing surface and electrically connected to a generator for providing an electrical signal to the generator; a second switch positioned on the first housing surface; a first partition positioned between the first switch and the second switch, wherein the first partition defines a first partition surface that is higher than the first housing surface; and a third switch positioned on the second housing surface and electrically connected to the generator for providing an electrical signal to the generator, a fourth switch positioned on the second housing surface, and a second partition positioned between the third switch and fourth switch, wherein the second partition defines a second partition surface that is higher than the second housing surface. 2. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the transducer defines a longitudinal axis and is configured to rotate about the axis relative to the housing. 3. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the second switch is electrically connected to the transducer. 4. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the fourth switch is electrically connected to the transducer. 5. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 1 further comprising a third partition adjacent to at least one of the first and second switches, wherein the third partition defines a third partition surface that is higher than the first housing surface. 6. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 5, wherein the first partition surface is a different height than the third partition surface. 7. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 1 further comprising a fourth partition adjacent to at least one of the third and fourth switches, wherein the fourth partition defines a fourth partition surface that is higher than the second housing surface. 8. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 7, wherein the second partition surface is a different height than the fourth partition surface. 9. An ultrasonic surgical instrument comprising: a housing for accepting a transducer wherein the housing defines a first housing surface and a second housing surface, and the transducer defines a longitudinal axis and is configured for electrical connection to a generator; a first and second switch positioned on the first housing surface for providing an electrical signal to the generator for controlling a first and second level of ultrasonic energy delivered by the transducer, a first partition positioned between the first and second switch, wherein the first partition defines a partition surface that is higher than the first housing surface; and a third and fourth switch positioned on the second housing surface and for providing an electrical signal to the generator for controlling the first and second level of ultrasonic energy delivered by the transducer, a second partition positioned between the third and fourth switch, wherein the second partition defines a partition surface that is higher than the second housing surface. 10. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 9, wherein the transducer is configured to rotate about the axis relative to the housing. 11. The ultrasonic surgical instrument of claim 10, wherein at least one of the first, second, third and fourth switches is electrically connected to the transducer. 12. An ultrasonic surgical instrument comprising: a housing for accepting a transducer wherein the housing defines a first housing surface and a second housing surface; a first switch positioned on the first housing surface and electrically connected to a generator for providing an electrical signal to the generator; a second switch positioned on the first housing surface; a first partition positioned between the first switch and the second switch, wherein the first partition defines a first partition surface that is higher than the first housing surface; a second partition adjacent to at least one of the first and second switches, wherein the second partition defines a second partition surface that is higher than the first housing surface; a third switch positioned on the second housing surface and electrically connected to the generator for providing an electrical signal to the generator; a fourth switch positioned on the second housing surface; a third partition positioned between the third switch and fourth switch, wherein the third partition defines a third partition surface that is higher than the second housing surface; and a fourth partition adjacent to at least one of the third and fourth switches, wherein the fourth partition defines a fourth partition surface that is higher than the second housing surface. 