A system or method which accesses or otherwise receives collected performance data for at least one server application, where the server application is capable of performing a plurality of transactions with client devices and the client devices are geographically dispersed from the server in known geographical locales, which automatically determines from the performance data which of the transactions are utilized by users of the client devices, which selects utilized transactions according to at least one pre-determined selection criteria, which automatically generates a transaction playback script for each of the selected transactions substituting test information in place of user-supplied or user-unique information in the transactions, which designates each script for execution from a geographical locale corresponding to the locale of the clients which execute the utilized transactions, which deploys the playback scripts to robotic agents geographically co-located with client devices according to the locale designation, and which executes the playback scripts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated method comprising: accessing or receiving collected performance data for at least one server application, the server application being capable of performing a plurality of transactions with client devices, the client devices being geographically dispersed from a server executing the server application, each client device being located in a known geographical locale; automatically determining from the performance data which of the plurality of transactions are being utilized most by users of the client devices; selecting one or more of the most utilized transactions according to at least one pre-determined selection criteria; automatically generating a transaction playback script for each of the selected utilized transactions in which each playback script utilizes pre-determined test information in place of user-supplied or user-unique information in the transactions, each script being designated for execution from a geographical locale corresponding to the locale of the client devices which execute the utilized transactions; deploying the playback scripts to one or more transaction playback robots geographically co-located with the client devices according to the locale designation; and executing by the transaction playback robot script said the playback scripts thereby exercising the server application. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising: monitoring the server application for changes in configuration; and responsive to detection of a change in the server application configuration, repeating the steps of accessing performance data, determining utilized transactions, selecting transactions, generating playback scripts, deploying scripts, and executing scripts. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising updating one or more application response monitors to collect detailed transaction information for the utilized and selected transactions, followed by generating playback scripts, deploying scripts, and executing scripts. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the collected performance data comprises hyper text transfer protocol server log information. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the collected performance data comprises application response monitor data. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the collected performance data comprises composite application monitor response time tracking data. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selection criteria comprises a frequency of transaction usage criteria. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selection criteria comprises a business value of transaction usage criteria. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selection criteria comprises a designated Uniform Resource Locator. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selection criteria comprises a performance level governed by a Service Level Agreement. 11. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the automatically determining from the performance data which of the plurality of transactions are being utilized by users of the client devices further comprises determining a period of peak utilization of the transactions, and wherein the automatically generating a transaction playback script comprises enabling the script to be executed by the playback scripts according to a schedule relative to the peak utilization period. 12. The method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the playback schedule is coincident with the peak utilization period. 13. The method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the playback schedule avoids playback during the peak utilization period. 14. An article of manufacture comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage memory suitable for encoding of software; and one or more software programs encoded by the non-transitory computer-readable storage memory and configured to cause a processor to perform: (a) accessing or receiving collected performance data for at least one server application, the server application being capable of performing a plurality of transactions with client devices, the client devices being geographically dispersed from a server executing the server application, each client device being located in a known geographical locale; (b) automatically determining from the performance data which of the plurality of transactions are being most utilized by users of the client devices; (c) selecting one or more of the most utilized transactions according to at least one pre-determined selection criteria; (d) automatically generating a transaction playback script for each of the selected utilized transactions in which each playback script utilizes pre-determined test information in place of user-supplied or user-unique information in the transactions, each script being designated for execution from a geographical locale corresponding to the locale of the client devices which execute the utilized transactions; (e) deploying the playback scripts to one or more transaction playback script robots geographically co-located with the client devices according to the locale designation; and (f) executing by the transaction playback robots the playback scripts thereby exercising the server application. 15. The article as set forth in claim 14 further comprising software encoded by the non-transitory computer-readable storage memory for: (g) monitoring the server application for changes in configuration; and (h) responsive to detection of a change in the server application configuration, repeating accessing performance data, determining utilized transactions, selecting transactions, generating playback scripts, deploying scripts, and executing scripts. 16. The article as set forth in claim 14 further comprising software encoded by the non-transitory computer-readable storage memory configured to update updating one or more application response monitors to collect detailed transaction information for the utilized and selected transactions, followed by performing generating playback scripts, deploying scripts, and executing scripts. 17. The article as set forth in claim 14 wherein the software for automatically determining from the performance data which of the plurality of transactions are being utilized by users of the client devices further comprises software for determining a period of peak utilization of the transactions, and wherein the software for automatically generating a transaction playback script comprises software for enabling the script to be executed by the playback scripts according to a schedule relative to the peak utilization period. 18. A system comprising: an input portion of a computing platform for accessing or receiving collected performance data for at least one server application, the server application being capable of performing a plurality of transactions with geographically-remote client devices, the client devices being geographically dispersed from a server executing the server application and each having an identified geographic locale; an analyzer portion of the computing platform configured to automatically determine from the performance data which of the plurality of transactions are being most utilized by users of the client devices, to select one or more of the most utilized transactions according to at least one pre-determined selection criteria, and to automatically generate a transaction playback script for each of the selected utilized transactions in which each playback script utilizes pre-determined test information in place of user-supplied or user-unique information in the transactions; one or more transaction playback robots co-located in the geographic locales with the client devices; and a script deployer portion of the computing platform configured to deploy the playback scripts to the one or more transaction playback script robots, each script being transmitted to a script co-located in a geographic locale with the one or more client devices from which the selected transactions were executed thereby causing the robots to receive and execute the playback scripts, exercising the server application according to the selected utilized transactions from the geographic locales. 19. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein said analyzer portion is further configured to: monitor the server application for changes in configuration and; responsive to detection of a change in the server application configuration, to trigger the input portion to access performance data; and to determine utilized transactions, to select transactions, and to generate updated playback scripts, and wherein the transmitter is further configured to deploy the updated scripts, thereby updating scripts executed by the transaction playback robots. 20. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein said analyzer portion is further configured to update configurations of one or more application response monitors to collect detailed transaction information for the utilized and selected transactions, followed by performing generating playback scripts, deploying scripts, and executing scripts by the input portion, analyzer portion, and transmitter. 21. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein the analyzer portion is further configured to determine a period of peak utilization of the transactions, and to generate playback scripts which are enabling to be executed by the playback scripts according to a schedule relative to the peak utilization period. 