Wet and dry film thickness can be measured non-invasively on structures, such as surfaces associated with vessels, aircraft and buildings, using calibrated microwave sensors. The film is measured by directing microwave energy toward the film. The microwave energy passes through the film and is reflected by a reflective or semi-reflective substrate surface below the film. Properties of the reflected wave are compared with properties of reflected waves that were passed through calibration samples of known thicknesses to determine the unknown thickness of the film. In some embodiments, one or more sensors are maintained at a fixed altitude above the conductive/semi-conductive substrate for measurement, and in other embodiments, one or more sensors are maintained at a fixed altitude above the film. In one embodiment, sensors are associated with a coating applicator, with a first sensor preceding the applicator and a second sensor following the applicator to measure the thickness of the film applied by the applicator by comparing measurements before and after coating.
Claims We claim as follows: 1. An apparatus for determining the thickness of a film on a substrate comprising: a first sensor including a microwave transmitter for producing a primary microwave energy, a waveguide for directing said primary microwave energy towards a target, a reflected energy separator to separate microwave energy reflected from the target and direct the reflected energy along a different path, and a detector for receiving only separated microwave energy reflected off said target; an analyzer for determining the thickness of the film on a substrate, the analyzer programmed to carry out the steps of (i) measuring the in-phase and quadrature components of the reflected microwave energy; (ii) comparing the measured components to stored data; and (iii) determining a thickness value of the film; (iv) determining the phase angle of the reflected wave from the in-phase and quadrature components of the reflected microwave energy; and an indicator for providing results of the determination. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the stored data is stored calibration data obtained from previous measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the stored calibration data is obtained from previous measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses made from the same material as the film to be measured and coated over the same material as the substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the stored calibration data is obtained by: directing primary microwave energy from a microwave sources toward a series of known thickness calibration targets, each thickness calibration target including a film on a calibration substrate; receiving reflected microwave energy returned from said thickness calibration targets; measuring said reflected microwave energy to determine one or more measured components of the reflected microwave energy; and determining and storing a relationship between the measured component of the reflected microwave energy and the film thickness. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the reflected energy separator comprises a three-port circulator that separates the path of the reflected microwave energy from the path of the transmitted microwave energy. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 in which determining a film thickness includes determining a phase angle of the reflected wave and the determining the thickness from the phase angle by comparing the phase angle with a predetermined relationship between phase angle and film thickness, the predetermined relationship having been derived from measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 in which determining a thickness value of the film includes eliminating the effect of the distance between the microwave transmitter and the substrate on the reflected microwave energy. 8. An apparatus for determining the thickness of a film on a substrate comprising: a first sensor including a microwave transmitter for producing a primary microwave energy, a waveguide for directing said primary microwave energy towards a target, a reflected energy separator to separate microwave energy reflected from the target and direct the reflected energy along a different path, and a detector for receiving only separated microwave energy reflected off said target; an analyzer for determining the thickness of the film on a substrate, the analyzer programmed to carry out the steps of (i) measuring components of the reflected microwave energy; (ii) comparing the measured components to stored data; and (iii) determining a thickness value of the film; an indicator for providing results of the determination; a coating applicator providing motion relative to a substrate and having a coating outlet for applying a wet film to the substrate during the period of relative motion; and a second sensor associated with the coating applicator and preceding the coating outlet in the direction of relative motion, the second sensor providing a measurement characteristic of the surface to be coated; and in which the first sensor is also associated with the coating applicator but is following the coating outlet in the direction of relative motion, the first sensor providing a measurement characteristic of the surface to be coated and the applied wet film. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the measurement characteristic provided by the second sensor is stored and compared to the measurement characteristic provided by the first sensor and in which a thickness value of the newly applied film is determined by the difference in measurements of the two sensors. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the stored data is stored calibration data obtained from previous measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses and in which a thickness value of the film is determined by the difference in measurements of the two sensors and by comparing the measurement characteristics provided by the sensors with the stored calibration data. 11. A method of determining thickness of a film on a substrate, comprising: directing primary microwave energy from a microwave transmitter toward a film of unknown thickness on a substrate located at a distance from the transmitter; receiving reflected microwave energy returned from the substrate as affected by the film; measuring components of the reflected microwave energy; and determining, from the effect of the film on the reflected microwave energy, while eliminating the effect of the distance between the microwave transmitter and the substrate on the reflected microwave energy, a thickness value of the film from the components of the reflected microwave energy using a stored relationship between the properties of reflected microwave energy and thicknesses of films, the stored relationship being obtained from previous measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses; in which directing primary microwave energy toward a film on a substrate includes moving a microwave transmitter parallel to the surface of the substrate as part of a robotic or automatic coating application system, and measuring a thickness of the film by employing two sensors, one microwave sensor over the substrate surface with coating of film applied and another sensor over the substrate surface without coating of film applied, and determining the difference in measurements of the two sensors. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: separating the path of the reflected microwave energy from the path of the primary microwave energy so that the reflected wave can be measured directly without measuring a standing wave resulting from the primary and reflected microwave energy. 13. The method of claim 11 further comprising determining the predetermined relationship by directing microwaves toward calibration films of known thicknesses and measuring one or more of the amplitude, phase shift, in-phase component, or quadrature component of the reflected microwave energy. 14. The method of claim 13 in which the predetermined relationship includes determining a relationship describing thickness as a function of an in-phase component and a quadrature component. 15. The method of claim 14 in which the predetermined relationship is one that is characterizable as a spiral on a graph showing film thickness plotted against in-phase component on one axis and quadrature component. 16. The method of claim 14 in which the predetermined relationship is one that is characterizable as a parabola on a graph showing film thickness plotted against shift in phase between the primary wave and the reflected wave. 17. The method of claim 14 in which the predetermined relationship is characterizable as a damped periodic function on a graph showing film thickness plotted against the in-phase component or the quadrature component of the reflected wave. 18. The method of claim 14 in which the predetermined relationship is stored as a table. 19. The method of claim 14 in which the predetermined relationship is stored as one or more mathematical expressions. 