A wafer handling robot, ion implanter system including a wafer handling robot and a related method are disclosed. An ion implanter system may include an ion implanting station including a load lock coupled thereto; a wafer handling robot located at least partially within the load lock, the wafer handling robot including an end effecter for handling at least one wafer, and a motor for moving the end effecter vertically; and a sensor positioned within the load lock to determine a vertical position of the end effecter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ion implanter system comprising: an ion implanting station including a load lock coupled thereto; a wafer handling robot located at least partially within the load lock, the wafer handling robot comprising a robotic arm coupled to an end effecter for handling at least one wafer, and a motor for moving the end effecter vertically; and a sensor positioned within the load lock to determine a vertical position of the end effecter in the load lock. 2. The ion implanter system of claim 1, wherein the end effecter includes a plurality of blades, each blade handling one wafer. 3. The ion implanter system of claim 2, wherein the sensor senses a vertical position of more than one blade as the plurality of blades move vertically. 4. The ion implanter system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes a beam that the end effecter traverses. 5. The ion implanter system of claim 4, wherein the sensor includes one of: a fiber-optic sensor, a laser sensor or an infra-red sensor. 6. The ion implanter system of claim 4, wherein the sensor includes a transmitter and receiver. 7. The ion implanter system of claim 4, wherein the beam extends substantially horizontally within the load lock. 8. The ion implanter system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes a Hall effect sensor. 9. A wafer handling robot comprising: a robotic arm coupled to an end effecter positioned for movement within a load lock of an ion implanter system, the end effecter handling at least one wafer; a motor for moving the end effecter vertically; and a sensor positioned within the load lock to determine a vertical position of the end effecter in the load lock. 10. The wafer handling robot of claim 9, wherein the end effecter includes a plurality of blades, each blade handling one wafer. 11. The wafer handling robot of claim 10, wherein the sensor senses a vertical position of more than one blade as the plurality of blades move vertically. 12. The wafer handling robot of claim 9, wherein the sensor includes a beam that the end effecter traverses. 13. The wafer handling robot of claim 12, wherein the sensor includes one of: a fiber-optic sensor, a laser sensor or an infra-red sensor. 14. The wafer handling robot of claim 12, wherein the sensor includes a transmitter and receiver. 15. The wafer handling robot of claim 12, wherein the beam extends substantially horizontally within the load lock. 16. The wafer handling robot of claim 9, wherein the sensor includes a Hall effect sensor. 17. A method of determining a vertical position of an end effecter of a wafer handling robot within a load lock of an ion implanter system, the method comprising: positioning a sensor within the load lock; vertically moving the end effecter coupled to a robotic arm of the wafer handling robot to trigger the sensor; and determining the vertical position of the end effecter in the load lock based on triggering of the sensor. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the sensor positioning includes emitting a substantially horizontal beam from the sensor through which the end effecter traverses. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the end effecter includes a plurality of blades, each blade handling one wafer; and the determining includes determining a vertical position of more than one blade as the plurality of blades move vertically. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the sensor includes one of: a fiber-optic sensor, a laser sensor or an infra-red sensor. 