An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, preforming an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims 1-15 in corresponding Japanese Application No. 2008-169682 (3 pages). cited by other. Primary Examiner: Griffin; Walter D Assistant Examiner: Mui; Christine T Attorney, Agent or Firm: Rothwell, Figg, Ernst & Manbeck, PC Cappellari, Esq.; Charles B. Parent Case Text CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/145,695 filed May 16, 2002, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/073,346 filed Feb. 13, 2002, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/985,064 filed Nov. 1, 2001, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,890,742, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/303,030 filed Apr. 30, 1999, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,335,166, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/083,927 filed May 1, 1998. The contents of each of the foregoing applications are incorporated by reference. Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for suspending a solid support material present in a fluid medium of a container, the method comprising the steps of: (a) rotating the container about a first axis of rotation that is parallel to the axis of the container, the container being disposed on a rotating turntable; and (b) rotating the turntable about a second axis of rotation that is parallel to the axis of the container and offset from the first axis of rotation, wherein the rotation of the container about the first axis of rotation and the rotation of the turntable about the second axis of rotation are sufficient to suspend the solid support material in the fluid medium of the container. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the container is open-ended. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the container is held by a container holder disposed on the turntable. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the container holder includes a retainer spring for urging the container toward a portion of an inner peripheral wall of the container holder opposite the retainer spring. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the container holder comprises a generally cylindrical member having open top and bottom ends. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the rotating turntable comprises a plurality of arms that extend radially outwardly from a center portion of the turntable. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the container holder is disposed at the end of one of said arms. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support material is a magnetically-responsive particle. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support material is adapted to immobilize a target analyte that may be present in the fluid medium. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the target analyte is a nucleic acid. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the fluid medium contains a capture probe for immobilizing the target analyte on the solid support material. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising periodically stopping the rotations of the container and the turntable to withdraw a portion of the fluid medium from the container using a robotic pipettor. 