Visual tracking over a sequence of images is formulated by defining an object class and one or more background classes. The most discriminant features available in the images are then used to select a portion of each image as belonging to the object class. Fisher's linear discriminant method is used to project high-dimensional image data onto a lower-dimensional space, e.g., a line, and perform classification in the lower-dimensional space. The projection function is incrementally updated.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for tracking a location of an object within a sequence of digital image frames, the method comprising: using a computer processor to perform steps of: receiving a first image vector representing a first image frame within the sequence of digital image frames; determining an initial location of the object in said first image frame from said first image vector; applying a dynamic model to said first image vector to predict motion of the object between the first image frame and a successive image frame and determine at least one predicted location of the object in the successive image frame within the sequence of digital image frames; projecting samples from the at least one predicted location of the object in the successive image frame to a low dimensional projection space according to projection parameters; applying a classification model to the projected samples of said successive image frame, the classification model applied in the low dimensional projection space and classifying each of the projected samples as one of a foreground object type and a background type; applying an inference model to the classified samples in the low dimensional projection space to predict a most likely location of the object resulting from motion of the object between the first image frame and the successive image frame of the sequence of digital image frames; and updating the projection parameters based on the most likely location of the object. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said dynamic model represents a windows position, an angular orientation, a width and a height of the object. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said inference model determines a distance from said successive image vector to a mean of said foreground object type. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said classification model comprises a Fisher Linear Discriminant model. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said background type comprises a single class. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said background type comprises multiple classes. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said background type comprises a number of classes equal to the number of images in the set of digital images. 8. A computer system for tracking the location of an object within a sequence of digital image frames, the system comprising: means for receiving a first image vector representing a first image frame within the sequence of digital image frames; means for determining the an initial location of the object in said first image frame from said first image vector; means for applying a dynamic model to said first image vector to predict motion of the object between the first image frame and a successive image frame and determine at least one predicted location of the object in the successive image frame within the sequence of digital image frames; means for projecting samples from the at least one predicted location of the object in the successive image frame to a low dimensional projection space according to projection parameters; means for applying a classification model to the projected samples of said successive image frame, the classification model app lied in the low dimensional projection space and classifying each of the projected samples as one of a foreground object type and a background type; means for applying an inference model to the classified samples in the low dimensional projection space to predict a most likely location of the object resulting from motion of the object between the first image frame and the successive image frame of the sequence of digital image frames; and means for updating the projection parameters based on the most likely location of the object. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said means for applying a dynamic model comprises means for representing a windows position, an angular orientation, a width and a height of the object. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein said means for applying an inference model comprises means to determine a distance from said successive image vector to a mean of said foreground object type. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein said classification model is a Fisher linear Discriminant model. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein said background type comprises a number of classes equal to the number of images in the set of digital images. 13. An image processing computer system for tracking the location of an object within a sequence of digital image frames, the image processing computer system comprising: an input module for receiving data representative of the sequence of digital image frames; a memory device coupled to said input module for storing said data representative of the sequence of digital image frames; a processor coupled to said memory device for iteratively retrieving the data representative of sequence of digital image frames, said processor configured to: apply a dynamic model to said first image vector to predict motion of the object between the first image frame and a successive image frame and determine at least one predicted location of the object in the successive image frame within the sequence of digital image frames; project samples from the at least one predicted location of the object in the successive image frame to a low dimensional projection space according to projection parameters; apply a classification model to the projected samples of said successive image frame, the classification model applied in the low dimensional projection space and classifying each of the projected samples as one of a foreground object type and a background type; apply an inference model to the classified samples in the low dimensional projection space to predict a most likely location of the object resulting from motion of the object between the first image frame and the successive image frame of the sequence of digital image frames; and update the projection parameters based on the most likely location of the object. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said dynamic model represents a windows position, an angular orientation, a width and a height of the object. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said inference model determines a distance from said successive image vector to a mean of said foreground object type. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein said classification model is a Fisher linear Discriminant model. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein said background type comprises a number of classes equal to the number of images in the set of digital images. 18. The system of claim 8, wherein said background type comprises a single class. 19. The system of claim 8, wherein said background type comprises multiple classes. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein said background type comprises a single class. 21. The system of claim 13, wherein said background type comprises multiple classes. 