The present invention relates to a method for producing a protein array starting from DNA (or mRNA) in which a number of native, functional proteins, domains or peptides are produced in parallel by in in vitro synthesis using a cell free system for transcription and translation. The products are immobilised in a gridded format on a surface, using an isolation sequence tag incorporated into the proteins.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An in situ method for producing an immobilized protein, domain or peptide array using wells of plates and a cell free system, wherein the method comprises the steps of: (a) providing DNA constructs that comprise (i) DNA sequences that encode proteins, domains or peptides, and (ii) DNA sequences that allow transcription and translation of the DNA sequences of (i) in a cell free system, wherein the encoded proteins, domains or peptides can be covalently or non-covalently attached to the wells of the plates; (b) distributing the DNA constructs in a gridded format into the wells of the plates that carry a ligand or reagent for immobilization of the proteins, domains or peptides encoded by the DNA sequences of (i); and (c) allowing transcribing and translating the DNA constructs of (b) to provide proteins, domains or peptides, in the gridded format, using the cell free system such that the translated protein products, domain products or peptide products are immobilized during production to the same wells in which the transcription and translation took place, thereby creating the protein, domain or peptide array. 2. An in situ method producing an immobilized protein, domain or peptide array using surfaces of substrates and a cell free system, wherein the method comprises the steps of: (a) providing DNA constructs that comprise (i) DNA sequences that encode proteins, domains or peptides, and (ii) DNA sequences that allow transcription and translation of the DNA sequences of (i) in a cell free system, wherein the encoded proteins, domains or peptides can be covalently or non-covalently attached to the surfaces of substrates; (b) distributing the DNA constructs in a gridded format onto the surfaces of the substrates that carry a ligand or reagent for immobilization of the proteins, domains or peptides encoded by the DNA sequences of (i); and (c) transcribing and translating the DNA constructs of (b) to provide proteins, domains or peptides, in the gridded format, using the cell free system such that the translated protein products, domain products or peptide products are immobilized during production to the same surfaces which were present when the transcription and translation took place, thereby creating the protein, domain or peptide array. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the DNA constructs are first transcribed into mRNA and the mRNA is then translated in a separate reaction. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cell free system allows coupled transcription and translation of DNA, or allows separate transcription of DNA and translation of mRNA, and wherein the cell free system is of rabbit reticulocyte, wheat germ, yeast, bacterial or other eukaryotic or prokaryotic origin. 5. The method according to claim 2, wherein the DNA constructs are first transcribed into mRNA and the mRNA is then translated in a separate reaction. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein the cell free system allows coupled transcription and translation of DNA, or allows separate transcription of DNA and translation of mRNA, and wherein the cell free system is of rabbit reticulocyte, wheat germ, yeast, bacterial or other eukaryotic or prokaryotic origin. 7. An in situ method for immobilizing proteins, domain or peptide using beads and a cell free system for use in an array having a gridded format, wherein the method comprises the steps of: (a) providing DNA constructs that comprise (i) DNA sequences that encode proteins, domains or peptides, and (ii) DNA sequences that allow transcription and translation of the DNA sequences of (i) in a cell free system, wherein the encoded proteins, domains or peptides can be covalently or non-covalently attached to the beads; (b) distributing the DNA constructs in the gridded format in the presence of the beads that carry a ligand or reagent for immobilization of the proteins, domains or peptides encoded by the DNA sequences of (i); and (c) allowing transcribing and translating the DNA constructs of (b) to provide proteins, domains or peptides, using the cell free system such that the translated protein products, domain products or peptide products are immobilized during production to the same beads which were present when the transcription and translation took place, thereby creating the protein, domain or peptide array. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the DNA constructs are first transcribed into mRNA and the mRNA is then translated in a separate reaction. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the cell free system allows coupled transcription and translation of DNA, or allows separate transcription of DNA and translation of mRNA, and wherein the cell free system is of rabbit reticulocyte, wheat germ, yeast, bacterial or other eukaryotic or prokaryotic origin. 10. The method according to claim 1, in which the array is a functional protein, domain or peptide array. 11. The method according to claim 2, in which the array is a functional protein, domain or peptide array. 12. The method according to claim 7, in which the array is a functional protein, domain or peptide array. 