A pin clamp for use in a manufacturing line. The clamp including a body and a pin arranged on one end thereof. The clamp having a hook arranged within the pin. A first torque arm is connected to the hook and contacts a spring. A second torque arm contacts the spring and a link member. The clamp is capable of holding workpieces at various load strengths and workpieces having a variety of thicknesses.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A pin clamp, said clamp comprising: a body; a pin arranged on one end of said body; a hook arranged within said pin; a first torque arm with two ends having a flange extending from each end of said first torque arm connected to said hook; a second torque arm with two ends having a flange extending from each end of said second torque arm, said second torque arm flanges opposing said first torque arm flanges; a first and second spring, each spring positioned between a respective pair of opposed flanges of said first and second torque arms for biasing said first and second torque arms with respect to one another for enabling relative movement of said first and second torque arms with respect to one another; and; a link member connected to said second torque arm. 2. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising a second link member connected to said link member. 3. The clamp of claim 2 further comprising a rod connected to said second link member. 4. The clamp of claim 2 further comprising a cylinder connected to an end of said body. 5. The clamp of claim 4 wherein said cylinder having a piston and said rod slidingly arranged therein. 6. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising a pin base secured to said body. 7. The clamp of claim 1 wherein said hook contacts and holds workpieces having different thicknesses. 8. The clamp of claim 1 wherein said springs may be changed to create different holding forces for the clamp. 9. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising an electronic sensor connected to said body. 10. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising a fastener arranged between said torque arms, said fastener arranged within said spring. 11. A variable thickness pin clamp for use in a manufacturing environment, said clamp comprising: a body; a cylinder connected to one end of said body; a pin base connected to another end of said body; a pin arranged within said pin base; a hook arranged within said pin and said body; a first torque arm with two ends having a flange extending from each end of said first torque arm connected to said hook; a second torque arm with two ends having a flange extending from each end of said second torque arm, said second torque arm flanges opposing said first torque arm flanges; a first and second spring, each spring positioned between a respective pair of opposed flanges of said first and second torque arms for biasing said first and second torque arms with respect to one another for enabling relative movement of said first and second torque arms with respect to one another; and a first link connected to said second torque arm; a second link pivotally connected to said first link; and a rod partially arranged in said cylinder and said body wherein said rod is connected with said second link. 12. The clamp of claim 11 further comprising an electronic sensor arranged on said body. 13. The clamp of claim 11 further comprising a spacer arranged around said pin. 14. The clamp of claim 11 further comprising a fastener arranged between said first torque arm and said second torque arm. 15. A variable thickness pin clamp for use in a manufacturing environment, said clamp comprising: a body; a cylinder connected to one end of said body; a pin base connected to another end of said body; a pin arranged within said pin base; a hook arranged within said pin and said body; a first torque arm with two ends having a flange extending from each end of said first torque arm connected to said hook; a second torque arm with two ends having a flange extending from each end of said second torque arm, said second torque arm flanges opposing said first torque arm flanges; at least one spring positioned between respective pairs of said opposed flanges of said first and second torque arms for biasing said first and second torque arms with respect to one another for enabling relative movement of said first and second torque arms with respect to one another; and a first link connected to said second torque arm; a second link pivotally connected to said first link; and a rod partially arranged in said cylinder and said body wherein said rod is connected with said second link. 