An endoscope is provided which comprises an elongated body adapted for insertion into a body lumen, and a plurality of electrically controlled actuators associated with the body which are controllable to impart an orientation to the body that is complimentary to the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An endoscope, comprising: an elongated body adapted for insertion into a lumen; and a plurality of electroactive polymer actuators associated with said body, said actuators being controllable to impart a desired orientation to said body that reflects the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted, wherein a plurality of said electroactive polymer actuators is disposed on a first sheet that is rolled into a tube, wherein a plurality of said electroactive polymer actuators is disposed on a second sheet that is rolled into a tube, and wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said first sheet are oriented in a direction that is different from the orientation of the electroactive polymer actuators on said second sheet. 2. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said first sheet are aligned with the longitudinal axis of said elongated body, and wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said second sheet range from about 45 to about 90 degrees out of alignment with the longitudinal axis of said elongated body. 3. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 2; and inserting the endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 4. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said first sheet are aligned with the longitudinal axis of said elongated body, and wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said second sheet are about 90 degrees out of alignment with the longitudinal axis of said elongated body. 5. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a sensing system at a distal end of the elongated body for sensing the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted. 6. The endoscope of claim 5, wherein said sensing system is an optical system. 7. The robotic endoscope of claim 6, wherein said optical system comprises a light source and a camera. 8. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 5; and inserting the endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 9. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope is adapted to maintain an orientation that is complimentary to the natural orientation of the lumen as the endoscope is advanced into the lumen. 10. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said actuators are controllable to provide a desired curvature to said body in 3-dimensional space at each of a plurality of loci along the length of said body. 11. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising lavage and insufflation tubes. 12. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said body is adapted to be manually advanced. 13. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope further comprises a drive mechanism for advancing the body through the lumen in accordance with a drive algorithm. 14. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a depth gauge. 15. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a linear displacement transducer. 16. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of strain gauges. 17. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said electroactive polymer actuators comprise an electroactive polymer selected from the group consisting of polyaniline, polypyrrole, and polyacetylene. 18. The endoscope of claim 17. wherein said electroactive polymer is polypyrrole. 19. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a lubricious layer disposed on the outer surface of said body. 20. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said elongated body is provided with a restoring force to bring it into alignment with its longitudinal axis, and wherein said elongated body deviates from such alignment when said actuators are in a contracted state. 21. The endoscope of claim 20, further comprising a plurality of structural elements, wherein said restoring force is provided by a plurality of springs disposed between structural elements. 22. The endoscope of claim 20, further comprising a plurality of structural elements, and wherein said restoring force is provided by an elastic cover disposed over said structural elements. 23. The endoscope of claim 20, further comprising a plurality of elastic structural elements, wherein said restoring force is provided by the structural elements. 24. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said electroactive polymer actuators are attached to pairs of structural elements. 25. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of structural elements, wherein said structural elements are selected from the group consisting of (a) an open-mesh network comprising at least one metallic filament, (b) an interconnected network of articulable segments, (c) a helical structure comprising at least one metallic filament, and (d) a patterned tubular sheet. 26. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 25; and inserting the endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 27. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of structural elements, wherein said structural elements comprise a series of short tubes. 28. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said first sheet is rolled into a tube around a tubular structural element. 29. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 28; and inserting the endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 30. The endoscope of claim 28, wherein said structural element is selected from the group consisting of (a) an open-mesh network comprising at least one metallic filament, (b) an interconnected network of articulable segments, (c) a helical structure comprising at least one metallic filament, and (d) a patterned tubular sheet. 31. A method of producing the endoscope of claim 28, comprising disposing a plurality of electroactive polymer actuators on said flexible sheet and then wrapping said flexible sheet around said tubular structural element. 32. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of structural elements, and wherein said structural elements are disposed on at least one sheet that is rolled into the form of a tube. 33. The endoscope of claim 32, further comprising a plurality of strain gauges that are disposed on at least one sheet that is rolled into a tube. 34. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein each of said actuators is connected to a controlling device by way of an individual cable. 35. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein each of said actuators is connected to a controlling device by way a multiplexed cable. 36. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein each of said actuators is connected to a controlling device by way of interconnection lines that are printed on one or more flexible sheets. 37. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope is equipped with a manual steering system that is operated under image guidance. 38. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope is equipped with an automated or semi-automated steering system comprising a lumen-center-seeking algorithm. 39. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said body comprises a lead module and a plurality of subsequent modules, and wherein said endoscope is adapted to travel through the lumen in such a way that, when each subsequent module reaches a position in the lumen previously occupied by said lead module, said actuators cause said each subsequent module to replicate the orientation of the lead module at said position. 40. The endoscope of claim 39, wherein data regarding said position is provided by a depth gauge of a linear displacement module. 41. The endoscope of claim 39, wherein data regarding said lead module orientation is provided by strain gauges disposed in said lead module. 42. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein the lumen is an intestinal lumen. 43. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 1; and inserting the endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 44. The endoscope of claim 1, comprising a plurality of said sheets wrapped around a tubular structural element. 45. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said plurality of electroactive polymer actuators are disposed on said first sheet that is rolled into said tube such that said actuators are disposed on an inner surface of said tube. 46. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said plurality of electroactive polymer actuators are printed on said first sheet that is rolled into a tube. 47. The endoscope of claim 46, further comprising a plurality of strain gauges that are printed on an additional sheet that is rolled into a tube. 48. The endoscope of claim 47, wherein each of said electroactive polymer actuators in the plurality of electroactive polymers is connected to a controlling device by way of interconnection lines that are printed on said first sheet that is rolled into a tube. 49. The endoscope of claim 47, wherein said first sheet and said additional sheet are registered with one another and the bonded together to form a unitary mass. 50. The endoscope of claim 49, wherein said first sheet and said additional sheet are spot welded to one another. 51. A method of producing the endoscope of claim 1, comprising disposing a plurality of electroactive polymer actuators on said flexible sheet and then rolling said flexible sheet into a tube. 52. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of strain gauges that are disposed on at least one sheet that is rolled into a tube. 53. A method of producing the endoscope of claim 52, comprising disposing a plurality of electroactive polymer actuators on said flexible sheet and then rolling said flexible sheet into a tube. 