An electromegasonic wafer cleaning system is disclosed that is extremely important, if not essential, in the fabrication of advanced microelectronic devices having a line width or feature size of from 0.05 to 0.10 micron. A unique synergistic combination is provided wherein piezoelectric transducer means are operated at a tolerable power level, such as from 1 to 2 watts per square centimeter, to minimize the risk of harm to the extremely delicate microcircuits and wherein the face of each wafer is negatively charged to a temperate voltage, such as from 5 to 20 volts, sufficient to cause effective removal of colloidal or sub 0.4-micron contaminant particles. This unique wafer cleaning system supersedes and replaces the standard megasonic-assisted RCA-type wet wafer cleaning systems which have never been able to eliminate or provide efficient purging of harmful sub 0.1-micron particles.
Claims I claim: 1. An electropurge process for economical wet cleaning of semi-conductor wafers during the fabrication of microelectronic devices wherein a single flat wafer is mounted in a fixed position in a narrow shaped receptacle having a flat wall portion parallel to the front face of the wafer and spaced therefrom a short distance, preferably less than 5 mm, and wherein a sequence of several wet cleaning operations is performed on said wafer while it is held in the desired position in said receptacle. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein at least one face of the semiconductor wafer is charged to a limited but effective voltage, from 4 to 40 volts, during a wet cleaning operation in said receptacle. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein a flat electrode with a diameter or width comparable to or larger than that of the semiconductor is provided at the outer face of the glass receptacle to induce the electrical charge at the wafer surface during wet cleaning. 4. In a process of the character described for fabrication of advanced microelectronic devices wherein delicate microcircuits with a minimum line width or circuit image size of from 0.5 to 1.0 micron are formed on the patterned front face of a flat circular silicon wafer having a diameter of at least 200 millimeters by a large number of layering, patterned and doping operations in 200 to 350 or more separate steps including 30 to 50 or more wet cleaning steps to remove contaminants from the wafer surface, and wherein each wafer is subjected to megasonic pressure waves while immersed in a dilute cleaning solution, the improvement wherein low-power piezoelectric transducer means provide megasonic energy in an amount no less than 0.5 watts per square centimeter, to avoid substantial impairment of the delicate circuits, and wherein the patterned front face of each silicon wafer is charged by induction to a voltage insufficient to alter or impair the delicate circuits and adequate to cause effective removal of sub 0.04-micron contaminant particles while avoiding electrolysis or current flow and the risk of ionic contamination. 5. A process according to claim 4 wherein the patterned front face of a single flat wafer with a diameter of from about 300 to about 400 mm is subjected to a series of wet cleaning and rinsing steps while the wafer is mounted in the internal cavity of a flattened quartz glass receptacle. 6. An electromegasonic process for fabrication of microelectronic devices on silicon wafers wherein delicate microcircuits with a line width or feature size of from 0.05 to 0.10 micron are formed on the front face of a silicon wafer by many layering, patterning and wet cleaning operations; wherein low-power piezoelectric transducer means direct tolerable and adequate amounts of megasonic energy against the patterned front face during wet cleaning to remove contaminant particles having a particle size above 0.1 micron; wherein said front face is artificially charged during wet cleaning to provide a limited negative voltage of 5 to 40 volts insufficient to alter or substantially impair the delicate microcircuits formed on that face and sufficient to cause effective removal of colloidal-size and sub 0.04-micron killer particles, and wherein the silicon wafer is charged by induction while avoiding electrolysis or current flow and the risk of ionic contamination. 7. A process according to claim 6 wherein said front face is provided with a limited electric charge of at least about 10 volts during most of said wet cleaning operations to minimize particulate contamination. 8. A process according to claim 6 wherein the front face of one thin plate or wafer containing the delicate microelectronic devices is subjected to a series of wet cleaning steps while that plate is mounted in a fixed position in the internal cavity of a flattened quartz glass receptacle. 9. A process according to claim 6 wherein the patterned front face of a semiconductor wafer is subjected to chemical mechanical polishing with colloidal-size refractory particles to obtain an atomically smooth surface with an interface roughness no greater than 2 angstroms rms, and the polished wafer is thereafter subject to electromegasonic cleaning in a tank or receptacle containing an ultradilute cleaning solution and having low-power piezoelectric transducer means supplied with megasonic energy at an effective power level no less than about 0.5 watts per square centimeter, the front face of the wafer being provided with an effective electric charge, no less than about 4 volts, to facilitate successful removal of colloidal-size and sub 0.4-micron killer particles, the voltage and megasonic energy being limited and not enough to alter or substantially impair the delicate microcircuits. 10. A process according to claim 6 for fabrication of advanced MOS transistors wherein the front face of a silicon wafer is provided with an atomically planar surface with a roughness value maintained below 5 angstroms rms during the various process steps, said transistors having delicate microcircuits with an ultrathin gate oxide thickness of from 10 to 20 angstroms; and wherein the amount of metallic mobile ionic contaminants (MICs) is controlled and minimized during wet cleaning operations to improve device processing yield, device performance and device reliability, the MIC levels being maintained below 5 parts per billion. 11. In the fabrication of microelectronic devices on silicon semiconductor wafers where delicate microcircuits are formed on the patterned front face of a flat silicon wafer having a diameter of from about 300 to about 400 mm by more than 200 steps including many layering, patterning and doping operations and at least 30 wet processing steps, the improvement wherein the patterned wafer is subjected to electromegasonic cleaning in a tank or receptacle containing an ultradilute cleaning solution and having low-power piezoelectric transducer means supplied with megasonic energy at an effective power level of from 1 to 2 watts per square centimeter, the front face of the wafer being provided with an electric charge of from 5 to 20 volts to facilitate successful removal of colloidal-size and sub 0.4-micron killer particles, the voltage and megasonic energy being limited and not enough to alter or substantially impair the delicate microcircuits. 