Systems and associated methods provide a level of indirection between multiple host computers and multiple data storage resources, such as removable media data storage devices. At least one of the hosts is not provided with direct access to some of the removable media data storage devices. Instead, logical addresses are provided to the host computers, where the logical addresses can relate to physical addresses associated with the data storage resources. A data storage resource handle or logical proxy may be presented to a host, and a management layer determines whether the host receives access to physical data storage resources, or virtual resources that emulate the physical resources.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of assigning, to a host computer, data storage resources in a data storage library, the method comprising: providing user-selectable options regarding how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, wherein the user-selectable options include at least a semiautomatic data storage resource assignment option; defining at least two of multiple data storage resources as pooled data storage resources that are not permanently associated with any one of multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a predetermined duration; receiving user input indicating how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, including at least one user input requirement; if the user input indicates semiautomatic data storage resource assignment, then automatically selecting data storage resources from unallocated data storage resources based at least in part on the one user input requirement; identifying physical addresses associated with the data storage resources selected from the unallocated data storage resources; at least temporarily associating logical addresses with identified physical addresses; providing the logical addresses to the host computer; receiving a user request for additional data storage resources for the host computer; and providing additional logical addresses to the host computer that correspond to additional data storage resources. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises providing an interface to permit a user to select specific physical data storage resources for the host computer from among the data storage resources. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein providing user-selectable options includes providing an automatic option, and wherein in response to receiving user input selecting the automatic option, automatically establishing a predefined logical library with a predefined set of data storage resources. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: defining at least one data storage drive as a spare data storage drive; detecting a set threshold error limit being exceeded, or a load or unload failure occurring with respect to a tape or disk cartridge and a data storage drive; and substituting the spare data storage drive. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: defining at least one of multiple data storage resources as at least one spare data storage resource. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: sharing a set of import and export data storage media slots between the host computer and another host computer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the data storage resources include at least two robots, and wherein the method further comprises: sharing the two robots between the host computer and another host computer, wherein no one robot is permanently associated with any one of the multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a duration of a requested data storage operation. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the data storage resources include data storage drives, and wherein the selected resources include a number of logical data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: allocating one of the data storage drives based on a request from the host computer based on policies to balance load across the data storage drives, wherein the policies consider at least one of: a number of hours of operation associated with a given data storage drive, a number of removable data storage medium loads associated with a given data storage drive, a number of failures associated with a given data storage drive, an amount of data read associated with a given data storage drive, an amount of data written associated with a given storage drive, a number of cleanings associated with a given data storage drive, and a number of read or write errors associated with a given data storage drive. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface to provide the user-selectable options and to define logical libraries, and wherein the user interface is further configured to permit a user to modify, delete and monitor logical libraries. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: providing a graphical user interface to provide the user-selectable options. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface to provide data capacity options; receiving user input indicating a request for additional data capacity; and assigning additional data storage resources in the data storage library. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: receiving a command from the host computer; and providing a response to the received command by at least one of the following: passing the command to a data storage resource; mapping the command to a physical address; returning cached data; and providing a modified request back to the host computer. 13. A system for use with at least one data storage library and multiple computers, wherein the data storage library includes multiple data storage drives, multiple data storage cartridge slots each configured to receive a removable data cartridge, at least one robot configured to move a data cartridge between a cartridge slot and a data storage drive, and at least one library controller coupled to the robot and the data storage drives, wherein the multiple data storage drives and the multiple data storage cartridge slots each have a first address, wherein the system comprises: a library management unit coupled between the multiple host computers and the library controller, wherein the library management unit includes a configuration tool having a user interface, and wherein the library management unit is configured to: receive input criteria from a user, via the user interface of the configuration tool, regarding how to configure a logical library for one of the multiple computers; select a set of data storage drives and a set of data storage media slots from the multiple data storage drives and the multiple data storage media slots, respectively; assign second addresses to the set of data storage drives or the set of data storage media slots; provide the assigned second addresses to the one computer; receive a request from the one computer; and associate one of the first addresses with one of the second addresses in response to the received request. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the first addresses are physical addresses and the second addresses are logical addresses. 15. A method of utilizing multiple data storage drives among at least first and second computers or first and second separate logical users of the first computer, the method comprising: dedicating the multiple data storage drives to a pool, said dedicating comprising defining at least two of multiple data storage resources as pooled data storage resources that are not permanently associated with any one of the computers or the separate logical users, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the computers or a requesting one of the separate logical users for a predetermined duration; providing to each of the first and second computers, or the first and second separate logical users of the first computer, at least one logical address that is to represent a physical address of one of the multiple data storage drives; receiving a request for a data storage drive operation, wherein the request is associated with the one logical address; selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool; and temporarily providing the selected data storage drive for at least the duration of the data storage drive operation. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the receiving a request includes first receiving the one logical address, and then receiving the request for a data storage drive operation. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising defining a logical library representing the pool, wherein the logical library includes logical addresses that represent physical addresses of all of the multiple data storage drives in the pool. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool includes either selecting a physical one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool, or selecting a software routine emulating one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the dedicating the multiple data storage drives to a pool includes dedicating all but at least one of the multiple data storage drives to a pool, and reserving the at least one data storage drive as a spare data storage drive. 20. A tangible computer-readable medium whose contents cause at least one data processing device to perform a method for utilizing multiple data storage drives among at least first and second computers or first and second separate logical users of the first computer, the method comprising: dedicating the multiple data storage drives to a pool for use by both the first and second computers, or the first and second separate users of the first computer; receiving a request for a data storage drive operation from the first or second computers, or the first and second separate logical users of the first computer; selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool; and temporarily providing the selected data storage drive for at least the duration of the data storage drive operation, wherein selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool is based on at least one policy to balance load across the multiple data storage drives, wherein the policy considers at least one of: a number of hours of operation associated with a given data storage drive, a number of removable data storage medium loads associated with a given data storage drive, a number of failures associated with a given data storage drive, a number of cleanings associated with a given data storage drive, and a number of read or write errors associated with a given data storage drive. 21. A system for use with at least one media changer and multiple computers, wherein the media changer includes multiple data transfer elements, multiple storage elements, at least one media transport element configured to move data media between storage elements and data transport elements, and at least one controller coupled to the media transport element and the data transfer elements, wherein the system comprises: a management layer coupled between the multiple host computers and the controller, wherein the management layer is configured to: create a logical library for one of the multiple computers by: identifying a set of data transfer elements and a set of storage elements from the multiple data transfer elements and the multiple storage elements respectively; assigning representational data to the set of data transfer elements and the set of storage elements, wherein the representational data substitutes for actual data associated with the data transfer elements and the storage elements in the set of data transfer elements and the set of storage elements, respectively; and providing the representational data to the one computer; receive a request for a data storage operation from the one computer associated with the created logical library; and associate actual data with the representational data in response to the received request to thus temporarily provide use of at least one of the data transfer elements in the set of data transfer elements to the one computer. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein the management control layer at least partially resides on a management control board, and wherein the logical library is assigned a unique Logical Unit Number. 