A method of maintaining a status of a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item, the method including, in a sensing device: (a) sensing at least one coded data portion; (b) generating, using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of the product item identity; and, (c) transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of maintaining a status of a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the method including, in a sensing device: (a) sensing at least one coded tag of a plurality of coded tags tiled across the interface surface, each coded tag encoding data on an identity of the product item and an identity of a region of the product item on which that coded tag is tiled, each coded tag having a structure which enables sensing and decoding of said encoded data at any orientation of the interface surface; (b) generating, using the sensed coded tag, indicating data indicative of the product item and region identities; and, (c) transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store based on the product item and region identities, wherein the product status information indicates for at least one product item, the product item identity and the status of the product item. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: (a) sensing at least one coded tag; and, (b) generating the indicating data using the sensed coded tag. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: (a) selecting a status mode; and, (b) generating indicating data indicative of the selected status mode. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the method includes, selecting the status mode by at least one of: (a) using an input provided on the sensing device; and, (b) sensing the coded tags on the interface surface, the sensing device being responsive to the coded tags to select the sensing mode. 5. The method of claim 3, the method including, in the computer system: (a) receiving the indicating data; (b) generating, using the received indicating data: (i) identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; and, (ii) mode data indicative of the status mode; (c) updating, using the identity data and the mode data, the status information. 6. The method of claim 1, the method including, in the computer system: (a) selecting a status mode; (b) receiving the indicating data; (c) generating, using the received indicating data, identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; (d) updating, using the identity data and the mode data, the status information. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method includes, selecting the status mode by at least one of: (a) using an input provided on the computer system; and, (b) in the computer system: (i) receiving mode indicating data from a sensing device, the sensing device being responsive to sensing of coded data provided on a respective mode interface surface to generate indicating data indicative of the status mode; (ii) generating, using the received indicating data, mode data indicative of the status mode; and, (iii) using the mode data to select the status mode. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least part of the product status information represents an inventory. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) determine, using the indicating data, identity data indicative of the product item identity; and, (b) updating the inventory using the identity data. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the inventory includes at least an indication of a predetermined number of product items of respective product types, the method including, in the computer system: (a) determining, using the indicating data, the product item type; (b) determining the number of product items of the respective product item type; (c) comparing the number of product items to the predetermined number; and, (d) in response to the comparison, at least one of: (i) providing an indication of the product item type on a shopping list; (ii) updating the product status information; and, (iii) taking no action. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least part of the product status information represents a shopping list. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) determine, using the indicating data, identity data indicative of the product item identity; and, (b) updating the shopping list using the identity data. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein each coded tag is indicative of an EPC associated with the product item. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the coded tags are provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: (a) product information; (b) the identity of the product item; (c) product status information; and, (d) a status request. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface surface is at least a portion of at least one of: (a) product item packaging; (b) product item labelling; (c) product manuals; (d) product instructions; and, (e) a surface of the product item. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the coded tags are disposed over at least one of: (a) substantially all of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (b) more than 25% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (c) more than 50% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (d) more than 75% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label. 17. A sensing device for maintaining a status of a product item and adapted for use in the method of claim 1, the product item being associated with the interface surface, the sensing device including: (a) a sensor for sensing at least one coded tag; (b) a processor for generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity; and, (c) a communication means for transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store. 