A planar laser illumination and imaging (PLIIM) based engine including; an engine housing having light transmission aperture; an image formation and detection module and having an image detection array and image formation optics with a field of view (FOV) extending from the image detection array, through the light transmission aperture and onto an object moving relative to the engine housing during object illumination and imaging operations; a planar laser illumination beam (PLIB) producing device, and having at least one visible laser illumination source arranged in relation to the image formation and detection module, for producing a planar light illumination beam (PLIB), and projecting the planar light illumination beam through light transmission aperture and oriented such that the plane of the PLIB is coplanar with the field of view of the image formation and detection module so that the object can be simultaneously illuminated by the planar light illumination beam and imaged within the field of view and onto the image detection array for detection as a digital linear image of the object; a laser despeckling mechanism for reducing the coherence of the PLIB during object illumination and imaging operation so that the power of speckle-pattern noise is substantially reduced in digital linear images detected on said image detection array.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A planar laser illumination and imaging (PLIIM) based engine comprising: an engine housing having light transmission aperture; an image formation and detection module, disposed in said engine housing, and having an image detection array and image formation optics with a field of view (FOV) extending from said image detection array, through said light transmission aperture and onto an object moving relative to said engine housing during object illumination and imaging operations; a planar laser illumination beam (PLIB) producing device, disposed in said engine housing, and having at least one visible laser illumination source arranged in relation to said image formation and detection module, for producing a planar light illumination beam (PLIB), and projecting said PLIB beam through said light transmission aperture and oriented such that the plane of said PLIB is coplanar with the field of view of said image formation and detection module so that the object can be simultaneously illuminated by said PLIB and imaged within said FOV and onto said image detection array for detection as a digital linear image of the object; a laser despeckling mechanism, disposed in said engine housing, for reducing the coherence of said PLIB during object illumination and imaging operations so that the power of speckle-pattern noise is substantially reduced in digital linear images detected on said image detection array; an image grabber, disposed in said engine housing, for grabbing digital linear images formed and detected by said image formation and detection module; and an image data buffer, disposed in said engine housing, for buffering said digital linear images grabbed by said image grabber. 2. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, which further comprises: an image processor, disposed in said engine housing, and operably associated with said image data buffer, for processing said buffered digital linear images so as to read code symbols graphically represented in said digital linear images; and a controller for automatically controlling one or more of said image formation and detection module, said PLIB producing device, said image frame grabber, said image data buffer and said image processor. 3. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said PLIB producing device comprises beam forming optics disposed before said at least one visible laser illumination source so as to produce at least one PLIB component in said PLIB produced from said PLIB producing device. 4. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said image formation optics have a fixed focal distance and a fixed focal length providing a fixed field of view. 5. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said image formation optics have a variable focal distance and a fixed focal length providing a fixed field of view. 6. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said image formation optics have a variable focal distance and a variable focal length providing a variable field of view. 7. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein code symbols are selected from the group consisting of bar code symbols. 8. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 2, wherein said image formation and detection module, said PLIB producing device, said image frame grabber, said image data buffer and said controller are supported on a single platform within disposed said engine housing. 9. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said image data buffer comprises VRAM. 10. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said image processor comprises a programmed microprocessor. 11. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a programmed microprocessor. 12. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said at least one visible laser illumination source is a VLD. 13. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said laser despeckling mechanism embodies an optical technique that effectively reduces the spatial and/or temporal coherence of said at least one laser illumination source producing said PLIB. 14. The PLIIM-based engine of claim 1, wherein said image detection array is a linear image detection array. 