A tele-medicine system that includes an input device which can control a medical system. The input device may be the handle of a surgeon console. The medical system may include a robotically controlled medical device. A transmitter may transmit information relating to each state of the input device over a communication network. The medical system receives the transmitted state information through a receiver. The medical system changes state in response to the received state information from the input device. The system sends information relating to an entire state of the input device over a sample period to insure that the medical system receives all commands, data, etc. necessary to operate the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tele-medicine system, comprising: a surgical instrument; a robotic arm for manipulating the surgical instrument; a first input device manipulatable by a first surgeon; a second input device manipulatable by a second surgeon; and a control system responsive to forward transmitted packets of information including destination fields indicative of the surgical instrument and data fields including sampled states of the first and second input devices to manipulate the surgical instrument according to a convex combination of the sampled states. 2. The tele-medicine system according to claim 1 wherein the control system includes a receiver that receives the forward transmitted packets of information and ignores packets received out of sequence to reduce latency. 3. The tele-medicine system according to claim 1 wherein the control system includes a receiver that receives the forward transmitted packets of information and requests retransmission of sequences of packets that are not errorlessly received. 4. The tele-medicine system according to claim 1, further comprising a communication network through which the forward transmitted packets of information are communicated to the control system. 5. The tele-medicine system according to claim 4 wherein the communication network includes the internet. 6. The tele-medicine system according to claim 4 wherein the forward transmitted packets of information are transmitted over the communication network using user datagram protocol. 7. The tele-medicine system according to claim 1 wherein the forward transmitted packets of information are transmitted over the communication network using asynchronous transfer mode. 8. The tele-medicine system according to claim 1 wherein the first and second input devices include a plurality of sensors, and the sampled states of the first and second input devices include information derived from the plurality of sensors. 9. The tele-medicine system according to claim 8 wherein the plurality of sensors include a roll sensor sensing rotation of the first input device around a roll axis. 10. The tele-medicine system according to claim 8 wherein the plurality of sensors include a shoulder joint sensor for sensing rotation of the first input device around a shoulder axis. 11. The tele-medicine system according to claim 8 wherein the plurality of sensors include an elbow joint sensor for sensing rotation of the first input device around an elbow axis. 12. The tele-medicine system according to claim 8 wherein the plurality of sensors include a handle sensor for sensing rotation of a handle of the first input device around a wrist axis. 13. The tele-medicine system according to claim 1 wherein the first and second input devices include a plurality of force actuators responsive to backward transmitted packets of information including sampled measurements of forces being exerted against the surgical instrument to provide resistance to the movements of the first and second input devices. 14. The tele-medicine system according to claim 13 wherein the backward transmitted packets of information include indications of a first force to be applied as resistance to the first input device and a second force to be applied as resistance to the second input device, the first force proportional to the contribution of the second input device to the convex combination of the sampled states and the second force proportional to the contribution of the first input device to the convex combination of the sampled states. 