High throughput screening of crystallization of a target material is accomplished by simultaneously introducing a solution of the target material into a plurality of chambers of a microfabricated fluidic device. The microfabricated fluidic device is then manipulated to vary the solution condition in the chambers, thereby simultaneously providing a large number of crystallization environments. Control over changed solution conditions may result from a variety of techniques, including but not limited to metering volumes of crystallizing agent into the chamber by volume exclusion, by entrapment of volumes of crystallizing agent determined by the dimensions of the microfabricated structure, or by cross-channel injection of sample and crystallizing agent into an array of junctions defined by intersecting orthogonal flow channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining crystallization conditions for a protein, the method comprising: delivering material within a microfluidic device to a plurality of enclosed volumes via one or more flow channels that each have a width and depth of less than 500 microns to form a plurality of different crystallization samples within the plurality of enclosed volumes, the plurality of different crystallization samples comprising a protein to be crystallized and crystallization conditions which vary among the plurality of different crystallization samples; allowing crystals of the protein to form in the plurality of crystallization samples within the microfluidic device when interface valves open and close between said protein samples and said crystallization conditions; and identifying which of the plurality of crystallization samples within the microfluidic device comprise a precipitate or a crystal of the protein. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is a flowchannel. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is a flowchannel with a cross sectional diameter of less than 2.5 mm. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is a flowchannel with a cross sectional diameter of less than 1 mm. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is a flowchannel with a cross sectional diameter of less than 500 microns. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is a chamber. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is at least partially enclosed within a substrate which comprises other enclosed volumes which also comprise crystallization samples. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the enclosed volume is at least partially enclosed within a card shaped substrate. 9. A method according to claim 1, the method further comprising performing a spectroscopic analysis on a precipitate or crystal formed within the volume. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the spectroscopic analysis is x-ray spectroscopy. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least as many electrons as is contained in a material defining the portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses. 12. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least three times as many electrons as is contained in a material defining the portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses. 13. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least five times as many electrons as is contained in a material defining the portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses. 14. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least ten times as many electrons as is contained in a material defining the portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein material defining the volume defines a groove that reduces a number of electrons that an x-ray beam used to perform x-ray spectroscopy of a crystal within the volume traverses in the process of performing x-ray spectroscopy on the sample within the volume. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises forming the plurality of different crystallization samples within the enclosed volume. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein one or more dividers are positioned within the enclosed volume to separate adjacent crystallization samples within the enclosed volume. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein the one or more dividers are formed of an impermeable material. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the impermeable material is an impermeable solid. 20. A method according to claim 18, wherein the one or more dividers are formed of a permeable material. 21. A method according to claim 17, wherein the one or more dividers are formed of a semipermeable material. 22. A method according to claim 17, wherein the one or more dividers function to modulate diffusion characteristics between adjacent crystallization samples. 23. A method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of the one or more dividers is formed of a semipermeable material which allows diffusion between adjacent crystallization samples. 24. A method for determining crystallization conditions for a protein, the method comprising: within a microfluidic device, delivering material to a plurality of enclosed volumes via one or more flow channels that each have a width and depth of less than 500 microns to form a plurality of different crystallization samples within the plurality of enclosed volumes, each enclosed volume comprising two or more crystallization samples, the different crystallization samples comprising a protein to be crystallized and crystallization conditions which vary among the plurality of different crystallization samples; allowing crystals of the protein to form in the plurality of crystallization samples by opening and closing interface valves between said protein samples and said crystallization samples; and identifying which of the plurality of crystallization samples comprise a precipitate or a crystal of the protein. 25. A method according to claim 10, wherein the x-ray spectroscopy is x-ray diffraction. 26. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the crystal or precipitate that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least as many electrons as is otherwise traversed by the x-ray beam when traversing a device comprising the volume. 27. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the crystal or precipitate that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least three times as many electrons as is otherwise traversed by the x-ray beam when traversing a device comprising the volume. 28. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the crystal or precipitate that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least five times as many electrons as is otherwise traversed by the x-ray beam when traversing a device comprising the volume. 29. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the crystal or precipitate that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least ten times as many electrons as is otherwise traversed by the x-ray beam when traversing a device comprising the volume. 30. A method according to claim 24, wherein each volume comprising a plurality of crystallization samples. 31. A method according to claim 10, wherein x-ray spectroscopy is performed such that a portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses contains at least half as many electrons as is contained in a material defining the portion of the volume that the x-ray beam traverses. 