A minimally-invasive coronary artery bypass graft procedure may be performed with a splittable proximal anastomosis tool. A distal anastomosis tool may be used as well, where that distal anastomosis tool may include a staple holder having two spaced-apart arms, staples detachably held by the staple holder, and an anvil connected to the staple holder.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical tool for performing closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to a coronary artery of the heart, comprising: a stabilizer head configured to stabilize the surface of the heart; and a distal anastomotic tool connected to said stabilizer head, said distal anastomotic tool comprising a staple holder having two spaced-apart arms, a plurality of staples detachably held by said staple holder, wherein each said arm holds a plurality of said staples; and an anvil connected to said staple holder, against which said staples are deformed by said staple holder; wherein said arms are parallel to one another both before and while said staple holder deforms said staples against said anvil. 2. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising an epicardial dissector connected to said stabilizer head. 3. The surgical tool of claim 2, wherein said epicardial dissector comprises a rotatable blade movable relative to the surface of the heart. 4. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein said stabilizer head includes at least one attachment structure configured to anchor said stabilizer head to the heart. 5. The surgical tool of claim 4, wherein at least one said attachment structure is a clip deployable from said stabilizer head. 6. The surgical tool of claim 4, wherein at least one said attachment structure is a suction port. 7. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein said stabilizer head further comprises at least one cam path defined therein, and wherein said distal anastomotic tool further comprises at least one cam follower engageable with at least one said cam path. 8. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one cable connected to said distal anastomotic tool, said cable configured to actuate said distal anastomotic tool. 9. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising a viewing apparatus connected to said stabilizer head. 