A processing system is described for depositing materials on multiple workpieces (wafers, display panels, or any other workpieces) at a time in a vacuum chamber. Multiple targets, of the same or different materials, may concurrently deposit material on the wafers as the pallet is rotating. Multiple magnets (one for each target) in the magnetron assembly in the sputtering chamber oscillate back and forth across an arc over their respective targets for uniform target erosion and uniform deposition on the wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sputtering device comprising: a chamber having at least one workpiece support area for receiving a workpiece, the chamber having walls, the chamber being sealable to create a low pressure environment in the chamber while sputtering materials on the workpiece; a target positioned within the chamber, a front side of the target being directed into the chamber for sputtering material from the target onto the workpiece, the target being located in a first plane; a magnet opposing a back side of the target, the magnet being located in a second plane; and an actuator connected to the magnet for scanning the magnet back and forth in an arc in only the second plane over the target during a sputtering operation, the actuator being connected to repeatedly scan the magnet through a first arc across the back side of the target then reverse a direction of the magnet back along the first arc, the first arc being less than 90 degrees. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the magnet is generally triangular shaped. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the magnet has a width in the direction of movement of the magnet, wherein the actuator scans the magnet a distance greater than one-half the width of the magnet for each scan of the magnet. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the magnet has a width in the direction of movement of the magnet, wherein the actuator scans the magnet a distance less than the entire width of the magnet for each scan of the magnet. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the actuator is an absolute encoder motor, wherein an angular position of the magnet is known by detecting an encoder code. 6. The device of claim 1 further comprising an insulating bracket connecting the actuator to the magnet. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the magnet is a permanent magnet. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein the magnet comprises a plurality of magnets arranged in a plurality of nested patterns. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the plurality of nested patterns comprises at least an inner ring and an outer ring, and wherein magnets in the outer ring are smaller than magnets in the inner ring. 10. The device of claim 1 wherein the workpiece is a semiconductor wafer. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein the workpiece is a portion of a flat panel display. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein a first wall of the chamber supports the target so that a back side of the target faces a first side of the first wall; and wherein the magnet is positioned outside of the chamber behind a second side of the first wall and opposes the back side of the target with the first wall between the magnet and the target. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein the magnet is a first magnet, the device further comprising: at least two additional magnets approximately equidistance apart, the at least two additional magnets being behind the second side of the first wall and opposing the back sides of respective targets with the first wall between the at least two additional magnets and the respective targets; and the actuator connected to the at least two additional magnets for scanning the at least two additional magnets back and forth in an arc over the respective targets during a sputtering operation. 14. The device of claim 13 wherein the actuator is located at a center area between the magnets. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein the actuator oscillates back and forth at a period between 0.5-10 seconds. 16. The device of claim 1 wherein a target and magnet length perpendicular to a scanning direction is between 1.1 and 1.5 times a smallest dimension of the workpiece surface facing the target. 17. A method for sputtering material onto a workpiece located in a chamber, the chamber having walls, the chamber containing a target located in a first plane, a front side of the target being directed into the chamber for sputtering material from the target onto the workpiece, wherein a magnet located in a second plane opposes a back side of the target, the method comprising: scanning the magnet, opposing the back side of the target, back and forth in an arc in only the second plane over the target during a sputtering operation, the magnet repeatedly scanning through a first arc across the back side of the target then reversing a direction back along the first arc, the first arc being less than 90 degrees. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the magnet has a width in the direction of movement of the magnet, wherein scanning the magnet comprises scanning the magnet a distance greater than one-half the width of the magnet for each scan of the magnet. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the magnet has a width in the direction of movement of the magnet, wherein scanning the magnet comprises scanning the magnet a distance less than the entire width of the magnet for each scan of the magnet. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the magnet is a first magnet, the method further comprising scanning at least two additional magnets back and forth in an arc over respective targets during a sputtering operation. 21. The device of claim 1 wherein the actuator is a motor. 