A robotic surgical system has a robot arm holding an instrument for performing a surgical procedure, and a control system for controlling movement of the arm and its instrument according to user manipulation of a master manipulator. The control system includes a filter in its forward path to attenuate master input commands that may cause instrument tip vibrations, and an inverse filter in a feedback path to the master manipulator configured so as to compensate for delay introduced by the forward path filter. To enhance control, master command and slave joint observers are also inserted in the control system to estimate slave joint position, velocity and acceleration commands using received slave joint position commands and torque feedbacks, and estimate actual slave joint positions, velocities and accelerations using sensed slave joint positions and commanded slave joint motor torques.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: a surgical instrument; a robotic arm assembly holding the surgical instrument; a master manipulator; and a controller configured to control movement of the surgical instrument in response to user operation of the master manipulator in such a manner that vibrations experienced at a tip of the surgical instrument are reduced by filtering an output of the master manipulator that may induce the vibrations while at least partially compensating in a feedback path to the master manipulator for delay induced by such filtering so as to enhance stability of such control. 2. The robotic surgical system according to claim 1, wherein the controller includes a control system to control movement of the robotic arm assembly in response to the user operation of the master manipulator, wherein the control system includes a filter for filtering the vibrations, and an inverse filter to at least partially compensate for delay caused by the filter in the control system. 3. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is characterized by attenuating high frequency signals above a cut-off frequency more than low frequency signals below the cut-off frequency. 4. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is further characterized by attenuating a resonant frequency signal caused by resonance of a mechanical structure supporting the robotic arm assembly so as to resemble a notch filter. 5. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is further characterized by attenuating a resonant frequency signal caused by resonance of the robotic arm assembly so as to resemble a notch filter. 6. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is implemented in a forward path of the control system from the master manipulator to the robotic arm assembly and the inverse filter is implemented in a feedback path of the control system from the robotic arm assembly to the master manipulator. 7. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is implemented such that the filter has an equal number of dominant poles and zeroes. 8. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is implemented such that the dominant poles of the filter are real and the dominant zeroes of the filter are complex. 9. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is implemented such that the dominant poles of the filter are less in magnitude than a resonant frequency of a mechanical structure associated with the robotic arm assembly. 10. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein an input of the filter includes at least one of a commanded position, commanded velocity, and commanded acceleration. 11. The robotic surgical system according to claim 10, wherein an output of the filter includes a filtered value for the commanded position, and a filtered value for the commanded velocity. 12. The robotic surgical system according to claim 11, wherein the output of the filter further includes a filtered value for the commanded acceleration. 13. The robotic surgical system according to claim 11, wherein the filter is digitally implemented as a state space balanced realization of the filter. 14. The robotic surgical system according to claim 11, wherein the commanded position is a position of a joint in the robotic arm assembly. 15. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the control system further comprises a slave joint observer having: inputs including a sensed slave joint position of a slave joint in the robotic arm assembly, and a motor drive command for driving a slave joint motor adapted to move the slave joint; and outputs including at least estimated values for a position of the slave joint and a velocity of the slave joint. 16. The robotic surgical system according to claim 15, wherein the outputs of the slave joint observer further includes an estimated value for an acceleration of the slave joint. 17. The robotic surgical system according to claim 15, wherein the slave joint observer has a disturbance observer structure and the outputs of the slave joint observer further includes an estimated value for an external load being applied to the slave joint motor. 18. The robotic surgical system according to claim 15, wherein the motor drive command is generated by using at least one of the differences between corresponding of the filtered values for the commanded joint position and commanded joint velocity, and estimated values for the slave joint position and velocity. 19. The robotic surgical system according to claim 15, wherein part of the motor drive command is generated by using at least one of the filtered values for the commanded position, velocity, and acceleration. 20. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, further comprising a master command observer having: inputs including a commanded joint position and a master motor drive feedback value; and outputs including estimated values for the commanded position and velocity. 21. The robotic surgical system according to claim 20, wherein the master command observer outputs further including an estimated value for the command acceleration. 22. The robotic surgical system according to claim 21, wherein the master command observer has a disturbance observer structure and the outputs of the master command observer further includes an estimated value for an external load applied to the master manipulator. 23. The robotic surgical system according to claim 2, wherein the inverse filter receives at least one of an estimated slave joint position, velocity and acceleration, and generates a filtered value for the at least one of the estimated slave position, velocity and acceleration. 24. The robotic surgical system according to claim 23, wherein the master motor drive feedback value is generated by using at least one of the differences between corresponding of the estimated values for the commanded position, velocity and acceleration, and outputs of the inverse filter. 25. The robotic surgical system according to claim 24, wherein part of the master motor drive command is generated by using at least one of the filtered values for the commanded position, velocity and acceleration. 