An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, performing an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims 1-13 in corresponding Japanese Application No. 2008-169680 (3 pages). cited by other. Primary Examiner: Griffin; Walter D Assistant Examiner: Mui; Christine T Attorney, Agent or Firm: Rothwell, Figg, Ernst & Manbeck, PC Cappellari, Esq.; Charles B. Parent Case Text CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11/134,323, filed May 23, 2005, which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10/145,695 filed May 16, 2002, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,135,145, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10/073,346 filed Feb. 13, 2002, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,267,795, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09/985,064 filed Nov. 1, 2001, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,890,742, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09/303,030 filed Apr. 30, 1999, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,335,166, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/083,927 filed May 1, 1998, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for agitating the contents of a container, said method comprising: (a) rotating a turntable about an axis of rotation, said turntable having one or more container holders mounted thereon, at least one of said container holders having an open-ended container held therein; (b) simultaneously rotating each said container holder about an axis of rotation that is generally parallel to said axis of rotation of said turntable, whereby the rotational motion of said turntable about its axis of rotation combined with the rotational motion of said container holders about their respective axes of rotation is sufficient to agitate the fluid contents of a fluid-holding portion of said at least one open-ended container held thereby so that a solid support material present in the fluid contents is kept in suspension, wherein said fluid-holding portion of said at least one container consists of a cylindrical inner wall and a bottom wall, wherein the axes of rotation of said turntable and said at least one container holder have vertical orientations, and wherein the movement of said at least one container is limited to the rotations of said turntable and said at least one container holder about their respective axes of rotation; (c) selectively stopping the rotations of said at least one said container about said axes of rotation so as to position said at least one container in an operative location with respect to a fluid transfer probe; and (d) after stopping the rotations of said at least one container, withdrawing an amount of the fluid contents of said at least one container with the fluid transfer probe. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid support material includes means for immobilizing a target analyte. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring the rotational position of said at least one container about the axis of rotation of said turntable. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein steps (a)-(d) are repeated one or more times. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said fluid transfer probe is operationally associated with a robotic pipettor. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring the rotational position of said container about said first axis of rotation. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein said solid support material includes magnetically responsive particles. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said target analyte is a target nucleic acid. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the fluid contents of said container further include a polynucleotide capture probe which hybridizes to a target nucleotide base sequence region present in said target nucleic acid under a first set of predetermined hybridization conditions. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said magnetically responsive particles include an immobilized polynucleotide which hybridizes to said polynucleotide capture probe under a second set of predetermined hybridization conditions. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: providing said amount of the fluid contents withdrawn in step (d) to said sample, said sample being present in a reaction receptacle; and exposing said sample to said first and second sets of predetermined hybridization conditions. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising subjecting said sample to a magnetic field, thereby isolating said magnetically responsive particles within said reaction receptacle. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising separating at least a portion of said sample from said magnetically responsive particles isolated within said reaction receptacle, thereby separating non-target nucleic acid from target nucleic acid which may be present in said sample. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid in said sample as an indication of the presence or absence of an organism or virus or one or more members of a group of organisms or viruses in said sample. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising amplifying said target nucleotide base sequence region prior to said determining step. 