A method of milking an animal involves admitting the animal into a milking box and expelling the animal from the milking box, the milking box comprising a connecting device, such as a robot arm, for automatically connecting a teat cup to a teat of the animal. The step of expelling the animal from the milking box is carried out using the robot arm. An installation for milking an animal is also described, the installation being provided with a milking box for the animal; a robot arm for automatically connecting a teat cup to a teat of the animal; and a device for expelling the animal from the milking box. The device for expelling the animal from the milking box comprises part of the robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of milking an animal, the method comprising: admitting the animal into a milking box, the milking box comprising a connecting device, for automatically connecting a teat cup to a teat of the animal; and subsequently expelling the animal from the milking box, wherein the expelling of the animal is carried out automatically by the connecting device. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of expelling the animal from the milking box comprises moving the connecting device into contact with the animal. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of expelling the animal from the milking box further comprises moving the connecting device into contact with the rear end of the animal and subsequently moving the connecting device at least over a particular distance in a longitudinal direction of the milking box. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of expelling the animal from the milking box further comprises touching the leg by means of the connecting device. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the step of expelling the animal from the milking box further comprises determining a position of a leg of the animal. 6. The method as claimed claim 1, wherein the step of expelling the animal from the milking box comprises establishing whether the animal has left the milking box and, if it has been established that the animal has not left the milking box, repeating the step of expelling the animal from the milking box up to a maximum number of times. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the maximum number is three. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein, if it is established that the animal has not left the milking box after the step of expelling the animal from the milking box has been repeated the maximum number of times, a warning signal is generated. 9. An installation for milking an animal, the installation comprising: a milking box for the animal; a connecting device for automatically connecting a teat cup to a teat of the animal; and a device for expelling the animal from the milking box, wherein the device for expelling the animal from the milking box comprises at least a portion of the connecting device and is arranged for moving the portion of the connected device into contact with the animal so as to urge the animal out of the milking box. 10. The installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the device for expelling the animal from the milking box is arranged for moving the connecting device into contact with the rear end of the animal and for subsequently moving the connecting device at least over a particular distance in a longitudinal direction of the milking box. 11. The installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the installation is provided with a device for determining the position of a leg of the animal and for supplying a leg position signal representing said position. 12. The installation as claimed in claim 11, wherein the device for expelling the animal from the milking box is further arranged for touching the leg by means of the connecting device. 13. The installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the device for expelling the animal from the milking box comprises a sensor for establishing whether the animal has left the milking box, the device for expelling the animal from the milking box being controllable with the aid of information from the sensor. 14. The installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the device for expelling the animal comprises resilient material provided on the connecting device. 15. The installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the connecting device comprises a robot arm carrying a plurality of teat cups. 16. The installation as claimed in claim 15, further comprising a controller arranged for controlling the robot arm to automatically connect the teat cup to a teat on the animal's udder and to move the robot arm into contact with a further part of the animal. 17. The installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the connecting device comprises a robot arm arranged to individually grip a single teat cup from a holder and apply the teat cup to the teat of the animal. 18. The installation as claimed in claim 17, further comprising a controller arranged for controlling the robot arm to automatically connect the teat cup to a teat on the animal's udder and to move the robot arm into contact with a further part of the animal. 