Test substrates used to test semiconductor fabrication tools are reclaimed by reading from a database the process steps performed on each test substrate and selecting a reclamation process from a plurality of reclamation processes. The reclamation process can include crystal lattice defect or metallic contaminant reduction treatments for reclaiming each test substrate. Each test substrate is sorted and placed into a group of test substrates having a common defect or contaminant reduction treatment assigned to the test substrates of the group. Additional features are described and claimed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer program product stored on a computer readable medium of a controller, the computer program product comprising computer-readable code executable to cause the controller to perform operations to reclaim test substrates used to test semiconductor fabrication tools, the operations comprising: (a) reading a plurality of test substrate identification data from a plurality of test substrates; (b) obtaining from a database, for each read test substrate, stored test substrate data describing the read test substrate; and (c) assigning each read test substrate a crystal lattice defect reduction treatment associated with the stored test substrate data for the read test substrate. 2. A product according to claim 1 wherein the operations further comprise inspecting each read test substrate to identify crystal lattice defects and storing in the database, test substrate data describing the results of the defect inspection for an inspected test substrate. 3. A product according to claim 1 wherein the operations further comprise sorting the read plurality of test substrates into a plurality of groups, wherein each test substrate of a group has a common assigned crystal lattice defect reduction treatment. 4. A product according to claim 3 wherein each read test substrate of a group has a common identified crystal lattice defect. 5. A product according to claim 3 wherein the operations further comprise reclaiming each read test substrate of each group using the common assigned crystal lattice defect reduction treatment. 6. A product according to claim 1 further wherein the stored test substrate data includes data identifying the section of an ingot from which the read test substrate was fabricated. 7. A product according to claim 6 wherein the crystal lattice defect reduction treatment assigned to each read test substrate depends upon the identified ingot section from which the read test substrate was fabricated. 8. A product according to claim 6 wherein the operations further comprise sorting the read plurality of test substrates into a plurality of groups, each group of test substrates having associated therewith a common identified ingot section and a common assigned crystal lattice defect reduction treatment. 9. A product according to claim 1 wherein the stored test substrate data includes data identifying fabrication processing steps undergone by a read test substrate including film deposition and anneal treatments. 10. A product according to claim 9 wherein the operations further comprise sorting the read plurality of test substrates into a plurality of groups, each group of test substrates having an associated common identified processing step and a common assigned crystal lattice defect reduction treatment. 11. A product according to claim 10 wherein the operations further comprise storing each group of read test substrate in a cassette and labeling the cassette of each group with indicia representing the common crystal lattice defect reduction treatment associated with the group. 12. A product according to claim 11 wherein the operations further comprise labeling the cassette of each group with indicia representing the test substrate identification data of each test substrate stored in the cassette of the group. 13. A product according to claim 1 wherein the operations further comprise implementing the crystal lattice defect reduction treatment on each test substrate. 14. A system to reclaim test substrates used to test semiconductor fabrication tools, the test substrates each bearing an identification code, the system comprising: (a) a reader to read an identification code from a test substrate; and (b) a controller having a memory to store a database comprising data representative of the identification code for each test substrate and associated data representative of a crystal lattice defect reduction treatment, and wherein the controller comprises program code to obtain from the database, for each read test substrate, stored test substrate data describing each read test substrate, and to assign to each read test substrate a crystal lattice defect reduction treatment associated with the stored test substrate data for the read test substrate. 15. A system according to claim 14 further comprising a robot to transfer a test substrate, and wherein the controller controls the robot to transfer a test substrate to a substrate storage container that has an associated crystal lattice defect reduction treatment. 16. A system according to claim 14 further comprising an in-line sensor to inspect each read test substrate to identify crystal lattice defects, and to store in the database, test substrate data describing the results of the defect inspection for an inspected test substrate. 17. A system according to claim 14 wherein the controller further comprises program code for implementing the crystal lattice defect reduction treatment in a substrate treatment chamber. 18. An article of manufacture for reclaiming test substrates used to test semiconductor fabrication tools, the article of manufacture comprising program code implemented in a computer readable medium of a controller, the program code executable to cause the controller to: (a) store in a database, a plurality of test substrate identification data, each test substrate identification data identifying a particular test substrate of a plurality of test substrates; (b) select a crystal lattice defect reduction treatment from a plurality of crystal lattice defect reduction treatments, for reclaiming each of said plurality of test substrates identified by said plurality of test substrate identification data; and (c) store into the database, a plurality of test substrate crystal lattice defect reduction treatment identification data associated with a stored test substrate identification data to identify the reclamation process selected to reclaim the test substrate. 19. An article according to claim 18 further comprising program code which is executable to cause the controller to implement the crystal lattice defect reduction treatment in a substrate treatment chamber. 20. A computer program product stored on a computer readable medium of a controller, the computer program product comprising computer-readable code executable to cause the controller to perform operations to reclaim the test substrates, and including a computer database of data for reclaiming test substrates used to test semiconductor fabrication tools, the computer database of data comprising: (a) a plurality of test substrate identification data, each test substrate identification data identifying a particular test substrate of a plurality of test substrates; and (b) a plurality of crystal lattice defect reduction treatment data, each crystal lattice defect reduction treatment data associated with a test substrate identification data. 21. A computer program product stored on a computer readable medium of a controller, the computer program product comprising computer-readable code executable to cause the controller to perform operations to reclaim test substrates used to test semiconductor fabrication tools, the operations comprising: (a) reading a plurality of test substrate identification data from a plurality of test substrates; (b) obtaining from a database, for each read test substrate, stored test substrate data describing each read test substrate; and (c) assigning each read test substrate a metallic contaminant reduction treatment associated with the stored test substrate data for each read test substrate. 22. A product according to claim 21 wherein the operations further comprise inspecting each read test substrate to identify a metallic contaminant level of the test substrate and storing in the database, test substrate data describing the results of the inspection for the substrate. 23. A product according to claim 21 wherein the operations further comprise sorting the read plurality of test substrates into a plurality of groups, wherein each test substrate of a group has a common assigned metallic contaminant reduction treatment. 24. A product according to claim 23 wherein each read test substrate of a group has a common identified metallic contaminant. 25. A product according to claim 24 wherein the common identified metallic contaminant is copper. 26. A product according to claim 21 wherein the stored test substrate data includes data identifying fabrication processing steps undergone by a read test substrate including deposition and anneal treatments. 27. A product according to claim 21 wherein the operations further comprise sorting the read plurality of test substrates into a plurality of groups, each group of test substrates having associated therewith (i) a common identified processing step, and (ii) a common assigned metallic contaminant or minimum contamination level. 28. A product according to claim 27 wherein the operations further comprise storing each group of read test substrate in a cassette and labeling the cassette of each group with indicia representing the metallic contaminant reduction treatment associated with the group. 29. A product according to claim 27 wherein the operations further comprise reclaiming each read test substrate of each group using the assigned metallic contaminant reduction treatment to reclaim each read test substrate of the group. 30. A product according to claim 21 wherein the operations further comprise implementing the metallic contaminant reduction treatment on each test substrate. 31. A computer program product stored on a computer readable medium of a controller, the computer program product comprising computer-readable code executable to cause the controller to perform operations to reclaim test substrates used to test copper fabrication tools, the operations comprising: (a) reading a plurality of test substrate identification data from a plurality of test substrates; (b) obtaining from a database, for each read test substrate, stored test substrate data describing each read test substrate; and (c) assigning each read test substrate, a copper contaminant reduction treatment associated with the stored test substrate data for each read test substrate. 32. A product according to claim 31 wherein the operations further comprise inspecting each read test substrate to identify the copper contaminant level of the test substrate and storing in the database, test substrate data describing the results of the inspection for the substrate. 33. A product according to claim 31 wherein the operations further comprise sorting the read plurality of test substrates unto a plurality of groups, wherein each test substrate of a group has a common assigned copper contaminant reduction treatment. 34. A system according to claim 31 wherein the operations further comprise implementing the copper contaminant reduction treatment in a substrate treatment chamber. 