A method for assigning element addresses in an automated data storage library includes determining if a data storage device, such as a tape cartridge, belongs to a particular host's cartridge assignment policy. If so, the data storage device is issued a virtual import/export element address taken from a set of non-common virtual import/export element addresses, if available. If no non-common address is available, then a common virtual import/export element address is assigned to the data storage device. If no addresses, either common or non-common, are available, then the data storage device is queued until an address becomes available.
Claims We claim: 1. A virtual import/export element addressing system, comprising: a library controller including a processor and a memory device adapted to store a table of assigned import/export element addresses corresponding to a plurality of host devices, wherein the processor is adapted to assign a non-common virtual import/export element address to a data storage device belonging to one of the plurality of host devices' cartridge assignment policy, if a non-common virtual import/export element address is available; and wherein the processor is further adapted to assign a common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if all of the following are true: a common virtual import/export address is available; the data storage device belongs to one of the plurality of host device's cartridge assignment policy; and no non-common virtual import/export element address is available. 2. The virtual import/export element addressing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further adapted to queue a virtual element address assignment of the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is not available and a common virtual import/export element address is not available. 3. The virtual import/export element addressing system of claim 1, wherein the data storage device is a tape cartridge. 4. An automated data storage system, comprising: a plurality of data storage devices; a communication network adapted to connect the data storage devices to a plurality of host computers; and a library controller including a processor and a memory device adapted to store a table of assigned import/export element addresses corresponding to the plurality of host computers, wherein the processor is adapted to assign a non-common virtual import/export element address to a data storage device belonging to one of the plurality of host computers' cartridge assignment policy, if a non-common virtual import/export element address is available; and wherein the processor is further adapted to assign a common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if all of the following are true: a common virtual import/export address is available; the data storage device belongs to one of the plurality of host device's cartridge assignment policy; and no non-common virtual import/export element address is available. 5. The automated data storage system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further adapted to queue a virtual element address assignment of the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is not available and a common virtual import/export element address is not available. 6. The automated data storage system of claim 4, wherein the data storage device is a tape cartridge. 7. A method of assigning a virtual import/export element address to a data storage device, comprising the steps of: identifying the data storage device as belonging to a cartridge assignment policy of a host device; and assigning a non-common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is available; and assigning a common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if all of the following are true: a common virtual import/export address is available; the data storage device belongs to said cartridge assignment policy of said host device; and no non-common virtual import/export element address is available. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of queuing a virtual element address assignment of the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is not available and a common virtual import/export element address is not available. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the data storage device is a tape cartridge. 10. An article of manufacture including a data storage medium, said data storage medium including a set of machine-readable instructions that are executable by a processing device to implement an algorithm, said algorithm comprising the steps of: identifying a data storage device as belonging to a cartridge assignment policy of a host device; and assigning a non-common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is available; and assigning a common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if all of the following are true: a common virtual import/export address is available; the data storage device belongs to said cartridge assignment policy of said host device; and no non-common virtual import/export element address is available. 11. The article of manufacture of claim 10, said algorithm further comprising the step of queuing a virtual element address assignment of the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is not available and a common virtual import/export element address is not available. 12. The article of manufacture of claim 10, wherein the data storage device is a tape cartridge. 13. A method of providing a service for assigning a virtual import/export element address to a data storage device, comprising integrating computer-readable code into a computing system, wherein the computer-readable code in combination with the computing system is capable of performing the following steps: identifying the data storage device as belonging to a cartridge assignment policy of a host device; and assigning a non-common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is available; and assigning a common virtual import/export element address to the data storage device if all of the following are true: a common virtual import/export address is available; the data storage device belongs to said cartridge assignment policy of said host device; and no non-common virtual import/export element address is available. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of queuing a virtual element address assignment of the data storage device if a non-common virtual import/export element address is not available and a common virtual import/export element address is not available. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the data storage device is a tape cartridge. 