Improved apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided that use a pedestal robot mounted on a rail system, a probe extension coupler, and an inspection probe capable of performing pulse echo ultrasonic inspection. A probe may also include sled appendages and an axial braking system to inspect over holes and off edges. A probe may also include an ultrasonic pulse echo transducer array for high rate inspection; the transducer array may be mounted in a bubbler shoe for individually coupling each of the transducers in the array. A rail system may also include an optical encoder for providing location information for the robot and axial braking system. A probe extension coupler presses the inspection probe against the structure for adjusting to changes in surface contours.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method for inspecting a structure, comprising: supporting an inspection probe against a surface of the structure, wherein the inspection probe comprises a pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor, and wherein supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure comprises pressing the inspection probe against the surface of the structure by the application of continuous force, wherein pressing the inspection probe against the surface of the structure with the application of the continuous force comprises at least one of extending and retracting the inspection probe with respect to an extension coupler to which the inspection probe is physically coupled; moving the inspection probe over at least a portion of the surface of the structure, whereby the inspection probe rides across the portion of the surface of the structure by the movement of the inspection probe and application of the continuous force, and whereby the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor is configured to maintain constant orientation with respect to the portion of the surface across which the inspection probe rides, wherein the portion comprises a solid surface portion and at least one of an edge of a hole in the structure and an edge of the structure, and wherein moving the inspection probe over at least the portion of the surface of the structure comprises passing the inspection probe from riding on the solid surface portion to at least over at least one of the edge of the hole and the edge of the structure and returning the inspection probe from at least over the at least one of the edge of the hole and the edge of the structure to riding on the solid surface portion; temporarily locking the extended or retracted position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler when the inspection probe passes over one or more of the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure, thereby preventing the inspection probe from extending past the surface of the structure into the hole or off the edge of the structure by the application of the continuous force of the inspection probe by the extension coupler; transmitting ultrasonic signals from the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor to the structure as the inspection probe is moved over at least the portion of the surface of the structure; and receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor to the structure and reflected from the structure, at the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor as the inspection probe is moved over at least the portion of the surface of the structure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the surface of the structure is a contoured portion, and wherein the inspection probe is configured to adjust for chances in the contour of the surface, whereby the inspection probe rides across the contoured portion of the surface of the structure, and whereby the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor is configured to maintain constant orientation with respect to the contoured portion of the surface across which the inspection probe rides. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising accommodating for differences between the position of the extension coupler and the surface of the structure by extending the inspection probe from the extension coupler to press the inspection probe against the surface of the structure with the application of the continuous force. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising unlocking the extended or retracted position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler when the inspection probe returns to riding on the solid surface portion from the one or more of over the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure, thereby permitting the inspection probe to ride across the surface of the structure. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein locking the extended or retracted position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler comprises activating one or more of a pneumatic cylinder, a piston lock, and an electronic switch, and wherein unlocking the extended or retracted position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler comprises releasing the one or more of a pneumatic cylinder, a piston lock, and an electronic switch. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein pressing the inspection probe against the surface of the structure with the application of the continuous force comprises maintaining constant pressure of the inspection probe against the surface of the structure. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein moving the inspection probe over at least the portion of the surface of the structure comprises passing the inspection probe from riding on the solid surface portion, over and past a first edge of the hole, over the hole, and over a second edge of the hole to return the inspection probe to riding on the solid surface portion, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals and receiving the ultrasonic signals continues while the inspection probe is over the first edge of the hole and over the second edge of the hole. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals continues while the inspection probe is over the hole. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein moving the inspection probe over at least the portion of the surface of the structure comprises passing the inspection probe from riding on the solid surface portion, over and past the edge of the structure, and back over the edge of the structure to return the inspection probe to riding on the solid surface portion, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals and receiving the ultrasonic signals continues while the inspection probe is over the edge of the structure. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals continues while the inspection probe is past the edge of the structure. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure further comprises pressing a position encoder against the surface of the structure. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure further comprises supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure on one or more sled appendages. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising temporarily locking the position of the one or more sled appendages when the inspection probe passes over the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising unlocking the position of the one or more sled appendages when the inspection probe passes from over the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure to riding on the solid surface portion, thereby permitting the inspection probe to ride across the surface of the structure on the one or more sled appendages. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein locking the position of the one or more sled appendages comprises activating at least one of a pneumatic cylinder, a piston lock, and an electronic switch, and wherein unlocking the position of the one or more sled appendages comprises releasing at least one of a pneumatic cylinder, a piston lock, and an electronic switch. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein locking the position of the one or more sled appendages comprises locking the motion of the one or more sled appendages in a front-to-back pitch rotational axis. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein locking the position of the one or more sled appendages comprises locking the motion of the one or more sled appendages in a side-to-side roll rotational axis. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising dispersing couplant between the inspection probe and the structure to couple the ultrasonic signals between the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor and the surface of the structure. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the inspection probe comprises a plurality of pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensors, and wherein comprising dispersing couplant between the inspection probe and the structure comprises individually dispersing couplant between each of the plurality of pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensors and the structure to individually couple each of the plurality of pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensors and the surface of the structure and thereby maintain coupling between the surface of the structure and at least one of the plurality of pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensors over the solid surface portion of the surface of the structure when at least one other of the plurality of pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensors is over a hole or past the edge of the structure. 20. A method for inspecting a structure, comprising the steps of: providing an ultrasonic inspection system for inspecting a structure, the ultrasonic inspection system having a motion control system, an extension coupler, and an inspection probe, the inspection probe having at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer for transmitting and receiving pulse echo ultrasonic signals; applying pressure to the inspection probe to press the inspection probe against a surface of a structure using the extension coupler and thereby extending the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler; moving the inspection probe over the structure using the motion control system, wherein the structure comprises a solid surface portion and at least one a hole in the structure and an edge of the structure; temporarily locking the extended position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler when the inspection probe passes one or more of over an edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure, thereby preventing the inspection probe from extending past the surface of the structure into the hole or off the edge of the structure by the application of the pressure of the inspection probe by the extension coupler; transmitting pulse echo ultrasonic signals from the transducer into the structure; and receiving pulse echo ultrasonic signals at the transducer reflected from the structure. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the motion control system comprises a rail system and a robotic arm, the rail system having a first end and a second end defined by a length of the rail system between the first end and the second end, and wherein the step of moving the inspection probe over the structure comprises translating the robotic arm along at least a portion of the length of the rail system. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of fixing the position of the inspection probe with respect to the surface. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of fixing the position of the inspection probe comprises activating an axial braking system. 24. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of coupling the pulse echo ultrasonic signals transmitted to and received from the structure using a couplant. 25. A method for inspecting a structure, comprising: supporting an inspection probe against a surface of the structure, wherein the inspection probe comprises a pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor, and wherein supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure comprises pressing the inspection probe against the surface of the structure by the application of continuous force, wherein pressing the inspection probe against the surface of the structure with the application of the continuous force comprises at least one of extending and retracting the inspection probe with respect to an extension coupler to which the inspection probe is physically coupled; moving the inspection probe over at least a portion of the surface of the structure, whereby the inspection probe rides across the portion of the surface of the structure by the movement of the inspection probe and application of the continuous force, and whereby the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor is configured to maintain constant orientation with respect to the portion of the surface across which the inspection probe rides, wherein the portion comprises a solid surface portion and at least one of an edge of a hole in the structure and an edge of the structure, and wherein moving the inspection probe over at least the portion of the surface of the structure comprises at least one of: moving the inspection probe from riding on the solid surface portion to over the edge of the hole, moving the inspection probe over the hole where the inspection probe is no longer riding on the solid surface portion, and moving the inspection probe from over the hole back to riding on the solid surface portion; and moving the inspection probe from riding on the solid surface portion to over the edge of the structure, moving the inspection probe past the edge of the structure and off the structure where the inspection probe is no longer riding on the solid surface portion, and moving the inspection probe from off the structure back to riding on the solid surface portion; transmitting ultrasonic signals from the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor to the structure as the inspection probe is moved over at least the portion of the surface of the structure; and receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor to the structure and reflected from the structure, at the pulse-echo ultrasonic inspection sensor as the inspection probe is moved over at least the portion of the surface of the structure. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure further comprises supporting the inspection probe against the surface of the structure on one or more sled appendages; the method further comprising: temporarily locking the position of the one or more sled appendages when the inspection probe passes over the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure; and unlocking the position of the one or more sled appendages when the inspection probe passes from over the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure to riding on the solid surface portion, thereby permitting the inspection probe to again ride across the surface of the structure on the one or more sled appendages. 