A fabricated microstructure comprising at least one protrusion capable of providing an adhesive force at a surface of between about 60 and 2,000 nano-Newtons. A stalk supports the protrusion at an oblique angle relative to a supporting surface. The microstructure can adhere to different surfaces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating an adhesive microstructure comprising: covering a structure having shafts supporting a plurality of stalks at an oblique angle with a molding substance, wherein the stalks have diameters of between about 50 nanometers and 2.0 microns and lengths of between about 0.5 microns and 20 microns; removing said structure to provide a template; filling the template with a polymer; and separating the template from the polymer to form the microstructure, wherein at least one stalk of the microstructure is capable of providing an adhesive force at a surface of between about 60 and 2,000 nano-Newtons. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the stalks have aspect ratios of 1:20-50. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer is a liquid polymer or a sputtered polymer. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the terminal ends of the stalks have shapes selected from the group consisting of a curved segment of a sphere, a flattened segment of a sphere, a sphere, a flattened surface, and an end of a cylinder. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the molded structure has a flexible supporting surface. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one stalk of the microstructure has a Young's modulus of between about 0.1 and 20 giga-Pascals. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one stalk of the microstructure is hydrophobic. 8. A method of fabricating an adhesive microstructure comprising: covering a structure having shafts supporting a plurality of stalks at an oblique angle with a molding substance, wherein the shafts have diameters of between about 1 and 10 microns and lengths of between about 1 microns and 500 microns, and wherein the stalks have diameters of between about 50 nanometers and 2.0 microns and lengths of between about 0.5 microns and 20 microns; removing said structure to provide a template; filling the template with a polymer; and separating the template from the polymer to form the microstructure, wherein at least one stalk of the microstructure is capable of providing an adhesive force at a surface of between about 60 and 2,000 nano-Newtons. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the shafts have diameters of between about 1 and 10 microns and lengths of between about 1 microns and 500 microns. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the polymer is a liquid polymer or a sputtered polymer. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein the terminal ends of the stalks have shapes selected from the group consisting of a curved segment of a sphere, a flattened segment of a sphere, a sphere, a flattened surface, and an end of a cylinder. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the molded structure has a flexible supporting surface. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein the at least one stalk of the microstructure has a Young's modulus of between about 0.1 and 20 giga-Pascals. 14. A method of fabricating an adhesive microstructure comprising: covering a structure having shafts supporting a plurality of stalks at an oblique angle of between about 15 and 75 degrees with a molding substance, wherein the shafts have diameters of between about 1 and 10 microns and lengths of between about 1 microns and 500 microns, and wherein the stalks have diameters of between about 50 nanometers and 2.0 microns and lengths of between about 0.5 microns and 20 microns; removing said structure to provide a template; filling the template with a polymer; and separating the template from the polymer to form the microstructure, wherein at least one stalk of the microstructure is capable of providing an adhesive force at a surface of between about 60 and 2,000 nano-Newtons. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the oblique angle is between about 30 and 60 degrees. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the oblique angle is about 30 degrees. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the polymer is a liquid polymer or a sputtered polymer. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the terminal ends of the stalks have shapes selected from the group consisting of a curved segment of a sphere, a flattened segment of a sphere, a sphere, a flattened surface, and an end of a cylinder. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein the molded structure has a flexible supporting surface. 20. The method of claim 14 wherein the at least one stalk of the microstructure has a Young's modulus of between about 0.1 and 20 giga-Pascals. 