A method and apparatus for using a collet to align and/or axially secure a liner within the gooseneck of a welding torch and to extend the useful life of the torch components are provided. A method and apparatus for securing torch components including said collet and including tapered locking engagement connections are also provided. A position of the liner with respect to a retaining head or a diffuser can be established and maintained, in spite of bending, swiveling, and other general movement of the torch, while still allowing flow of a shield gas past the collet. The welding torch components, including a gas diffuser, can be secured to the torch or other torch components via tapered locking engagements. The invention is useful for both manual and robotic torch systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for positioning a liner with respect to a gooseneck of a welding torch, the method comprising the steps of: passing the liner through a central passage of a collet to establish a position of the liner with respect to the collet, the collet receiving and being secured to the liner to position the liner within the gooseneck; and establishing the liner position with respect to the gooseneck by securing the collet to the gooseneck. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein securing the collet to the gooseneck includes positioning a tapered surface of the collet in contact with a corresponding tapered surface of the gooseneck. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein securing the collet to the gooseneck includes engaging a first set of external threads of the collet with a threaded region of the gooseneck. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of connecting a retaining head or a diffuser to the gooseneck or the collet. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein connecting the retaining head or the diffuser comprises engaging a threaded region of the retaining head or the diffuser with a threaded region of the gooseneck or a second set of external threads of the collet. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the establishing step further comprises centering the liner with respect to the gooseneck. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the establishing step axially constrains the liner. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the collet comprises: a hollow body defining a central passage along a longitudinal axis therethrough and having at least one set of external securing threads; a compression region comprising at least one compression slot defined by at least one compression finger, disposed at a first end of the body; at least one gas passageway defined by an exterior surface of the hollow body to be an open channel disposed along the exterior surface of the body, the gas passageway passing through the at least one set of securing threads and providing for a gas flow between the first end and a second end of the body; and at least one surface accessible from the proximal end of the body for securing the body within the gooseneck. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the compression region further comprises a first tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a first component. 10. A method of manufacturing a collet comprising: forming a hollow body defining a central passage along a longitudinal axis therethrough, the body having at least one set of external securing threads; forming at least one compression finger at a first end of the body, the at least one compression finger being configured to be secured to a liner within a torch gooseneck to position the liner within the gooseneck; establishing a gas passageway along an exterior surface of the hollow body between the first end and a second end of the body, the gas passageway passing through the at least one set of securing threads; and forming a securing structure at the second end of the body, such that the securing structure can be used to cause the at least one compression finger to secure the distal end to a liner when the second end engages a gooseneck. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising providing a first tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a corresponding tapered surface of a first component. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the at least one compression finger defines at least one compression slot. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the gas passageway is an open channel disposed along the exterior surface. 14. A welding torch comprising: a torch body having a handle and a gooseneck; a liner passing through the gooseneck and to a retaining head; and a collet, the collet comprising: a hollow body defining a central passage along a longitudinal axis therethrough; a compression region defining at least one compression slot disposed at a first end of the hollow body and configured to receive and to be secured to the liner to position the liner within the gooseneck; at least one gas passageway disposed along an exterior surface of the hollow body, providing a gas flow between the first end and a second end of the hollow body; and at least one surface accessible from the second end of the hollow body for securing the hollow body within the gooseneck, such that tightening the collet fixes a position of the liner with respect to the gooseneck, without blocking the gas passageway. 15. The welding torch of claim 14 wherein the compression region of the collet further comprises a first tapered surface for lockingly engaging a tapered surface of a first component. 16. The welding torch of claim 14 wherein the compression region includes at least one compression slot defined by at least one compression finger. 17. The welding torch of claim 14 wherein the collet is an integral assembly comprising a metallic or polymeric material. 18. The welding torch of claim 14 wherein the at least one surface is defined by an exterior surface disposed relative to the second end of the body. 