A system for replicating the behavior of a target robotic manipulator with respect to a payload and worksite, has a real-time simulator capturing the dynamics of the target robot manipulator; a mock-up of the payload and worksite; and an emulating robotic manipulator for interacting with said payload and worksite. The emulating robotic manipulator is controlled by the real-time simulator in a control loop to replicate the dynamical behavior of said target robotic manipulator in its environment by matching the impedance of the emulating robotic manipulator with that of the target robotic manipulator.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for replicating the behavior of a target robotic manipulator with respect to a payload and worksite, comprising: a real-time simulator capturing the dynamics of the target robot manipulator; a mock-up of said payload and worksite; and an emulating robotic manipulator for interacting with said payload and worksite; said emulating robotic manipulator being controlled by said real-time simulator in a control loop to replicate the dynamical behavior of said target robotic manipulator in its environment by matching the impedance of the emulating robotic manipulator with that of the target robotic manipulator. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control loop is a feedback loop. 3. A system as claimed in claim 2, comprising a sensor for measuring at least one of the contact force and moment resulting from the interactive of said emulating robotic manipulator with its environment, and wherein signals from said sensor are fed back to said real-time simulator. 4. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said emulating robotic manipulator is rigid and said emulating robotic manipulator is controlled by a non-linear controller. 5. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said emulating robotic manipulator is rigid or flexible, and said emulating robotic manipulator is controlled by a linear controller. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein said linear controller is a mu-synthesis controller. 7. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impedance of said emulating robotic manipulator is matched to the impedance of said target robotic manipulator as simulated by said real-time simulator, which is in a closed-loop configuration. 8. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the endpoint pose of the simulated robot manipulator is constrained with that of the emulating robot by applying a rheonomic constraint to the real-time simulator. 9. A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a controller applies a specified transfer function. 10. A system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said controller is configured to: minimize the weighted distance between realized and specified force transfer functions; minimize force sensitivity; and maintain closed loop stability over a wide range of environmental parameters. 11. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control loop is based on a non-linear approach and matches the non-linear dynamic responses, and said emulating robotic manipulator is flexible or rigid. 12. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impedance of the robot can be captured by a linear model, and the control of the emulating robotic manipulator is effected in the frequency domain. 13. A system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the impedance of the emulating robot is measured using spectral analysis. 14. A method of replicating the behavior of a target robotic manipulator in its environment using an emulating robotic manipulator, comprising: applying a motion control law to the emulating robotic manipulator with sufficient bandwidth to allow adequate maneuvering in free space; obtaining the impedance of the target robotic manipulator; obtaining experimentally the open-loop admittance of the emulating robotic manipulator; and matching the impedance of the target robotic manipulator and emulating robotic manipulator. 15. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the emulating robot is rigid, and the emulation is based on a non-linear model. 16. A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the emulating robotic manipulator is assumed to be rigid or non-rigid, and the impedance of the robotic manipulator is captured using a linear model. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said linear model is based on mu synthesis. 18. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein control is effect in the frequency domain. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the impedance of the emulating robotic manipulator is captured by spectral analysis. 20. A method as claimed in claim 14, further comprising computing a transfer function to match the input/output behavior of the emulating robotic manipulator. 21. A method as claimed in claim 14, further comprising: specifying a range of variation for stiffness and damping of the environment; building a parametric uncertainty model for the environment; and building a linear fractional transformation model based on the performance specification and said uncertainty model. 22. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the impedance of the target robotic manipulator is obtained for a sequence of input/output data obtained by excitation of the emulating robotic manipulator in contact with its environment. 23. A method for replicating the behavior of a target robotic manipulator with respect to a payload and worksite, comprising: providing a mock-up of payload and worksite; providing an emulating robotic manipulator which emulates the performance of the target robotic manipulator while interacting with said mock-up of the payload and worksite; and controlling said emulating robotic manipulator with a real-time simulator to maintain an endpoint pose of the emulating robotic simulator coincident with that of the target robotic simulator by applying a rheonomic constraint to the simulator. 24. A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the dynamical behavior of said target robotic manipulator in its environment is emulated by matching the impedance of the emulating robotic manipulator with that of the target robotic manipulator. 25. A force feedback controller for an emulating robotic manipulator of a target robot, wherein, said force feedback controller is configured to: (i) build a parametric uncertainty model based on the range of variation on the stiffness and damping values in the environment; (ii) determine the open-loop frequency response of the emulating robot manipulator from a sequence of input-output data obtained by excitation of the emulating robotic manipulator in contact with the environment; (iii) compute the coefficient of a fixed transfer function to match the observed input/output behavior; and (vi) build a linear fractional transformation model based on a performance specification and the uncertainty model to achieve desired impedance and ensure contact stability. 26. A controller as claimed in claim 25, wherein said controller is a mu-synthesis based controller. 