In a first aspect, a wafer loading station adapted to exchange wafer carriers with a wafer carrier transport system comprises a biasing element adapted to urge the end effector of the wafer loading station away from a moveable conveyor of the wafer carrier transport system upon the occurrence of a unscheduled event such as a power failure or an emergency shutdown. In a second aspect, an uninterruptible power supply commands a controller to cause the wafer carrier handler to retract the end effector from the wafer carrier transport system upon the occurrence of the unscheduled event, and provides the power necessary for the same. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus to supply substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler to transport a substrate carrier to a first docking station, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector to support the substrate carrier; and a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion, wherein the controller is operative to automatically retract the end effector from the conveyor in response to an unscheduled event. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unscheduled event is the controller receiving power from an uninterruptible power supply. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unscheduled event is an emergency shutdown routine. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unscheduled event is a loss of power. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an uninterruptible power supply coupled to the controller and to supply power to the controller in the event of a power loss. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the uninterruptible power supply is further coupled to the substrate carrier handler and so as to supply power to the substrate carrier handler in the event of a power loss. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller is further to direct power from the uninterruptible power supply to the substrate carrier handler. 8. An apparatus for transferring substrate carriers to or from a substrate carrier transport system, comprising: a substrate carrier handler to intersect, a transportation path along which a substrate carrier transport system transports substrate carriers so as to pick or place a substrate carrier from or to the substrate carrier transport system; and a biasing mechanism coupled to the substrate carrier handler and to apply a force in response to an unscheduled event to the substrate carrier handler so as to move at least a portion of the substrate carrier handler away from the path along which the substrate carrier transport system transports substrate carriers. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the portion of the substrate carrier handler is an end effector to pick or place a substrate carrier. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the substrate carrier handler is further to move the end effector portion along the transportation path. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the substrate carrier handler is further to move the end effector along the path so as to match a speed of a substrate carrier being transported along the path. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the substrate carrier handler is further to move the end effector along the path so as to simultaneously match a speed and a position of a substrate carrier being transported along the path. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the substrate carrier handler is adapted to selectively intersect the transportation path. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the substrate carrier handler is to defeat the biasing mechanism when intersecting the path. 15. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the biasing mechanism is to apply the force to the substrate carrier handler only when the substrate carrier handler is intersecting the transportation path. 16. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the force applied by the biasing mechanism to the substrate carrier handler is sufficient to move the end effector away from the transportation path only in the absence of an opposing motive force from the substrate carrier handler. 17. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the biasing mechanism comprises a resilient element to store energy for moving the end effector away from the path. 18. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the biasing mechanism comprises a spring. 19. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the biasing mechanism comprises an air cylinder. 20. A method of regulating interaction between a substrate carrier transport system to transport substrate carriers along a path and a substrate carrier handler to intersect the path so as to pick or place substrate carriers from or to the substrate carrier transport system, the method comprising: providing a substrate carrier handler to selectively intersect a path along which a substrate carrier transport system transports substrate carriers; providing a biasing mechanism to apply a force to the substrate carrier handler so as to eliminate an intersection between the substrate carrier handler and the path; applying a first source of power to the substrate carrier handler sufficient to permit the substrate carrier handler to move the end effector against the force of the biasing mechanism and into the path; causing the substrate carrier handler to move the end effector into the path so as to create an intersection between the substrate carrier handler and the path; depriving the substrate carrier handler of the first source of power during the intersection; and permitting the force of the biasing mechanism to move the end effector away from the path so as to eliminate the intersection. 