One embodiment of the present invention is a method for computing a first gaze axis of an eye in a first coordinate system. A camera is focused on the eye and moved to maintain the focus on the eye as the eye moves in the first coordinate system. A first location of the camera in the first coordinate system is measured. A second location of the eye and a gaze direction of the eye within a second coordinate system are measured. A second gaze axis within the second coordinate system is computed from the second location and the gaze direction. The first gaze axis is computed from the second gaze axis and the first location using a first coordinate transformation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for computing a first gaze axis of an eye in a first coordinate system, comprising: a camera, wherein the camera focuses on the eye and moves to maintain the focus on the eye as the eye moves in the first coordinate system; a gimbal, wherein the gimbal is connected to the camera and wherein the gimbal is used to move the camera, and a processor, wherein the processor is connected to the camera and the gimbal such that the processor controls the focus, controls movement of the gimbal, and measures a first location of the camera in the first coordinate system; wherein the processor measures a second location of the eye and a gaze direction of the eye within a second coordinate system; wherein the processor computes a second gaze axis within the second coordinate system from the second location and the gaze direction; and wherein the processor computes the first gaze axis from the second gaze axis and the first location using a first coordinate transformation that comprises one or more rotational parameters. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first coordinate system is a world coordinate system and the second coordinate system is a coordinate system of the camera. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the world coordinate system is defined with respect to a two-dimensional screen of a display. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processor computes a gaze point of the eye as a point on the screen where the first gaze axis intersects the screen. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the first coordinate transformation comprises a second coordinate transformation between the coordinate system of the camera and a coordinate system of the gimbal and a third coordinate transformation between the coordinate system of the gimbal and the world coordinate system. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor measures the first location of the camera in the first coordinate system using camera orientation sensors. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor measures the second location of the eye and the gaze direction of the eye within the second coordinate system using an asymmetric aperture method. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor measures the second location of the eye and the gaze direction of the eye within the second coordinate system by measuring a second gaze direction of the eye within in a coordinate system of the eye, selecting a point on the second gaze direction as a third location of the eye within the coordinate system of the eye, converting the second gaze direction to the gaze direction and the third location to the second location using a second coordinate transformation. 9. A method for computing a first gaze axis of an eye in a first coordinate system, comprising: focusing a camera on the eye and moving the camera to maintain the focus on the eye as the eye moves in the first coordinate system; measuring a first location of the camera in the first coordinate system; measuring a second location of the eye and a gaze direction of the eye within a second coordinate system; computing a second gaze axis within the second coordinate system from the second location and the gaze direction; and computing the first gaze axis from the second gaze axis and the first location using a first coordinate transformation that comprises one or more rotational parameters. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first coordinate system is a world coordinate system and the second coordinate system is a coordinate system of the camera. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the world coordinate system is defined with respect to a two-dimensional screen of a display. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising computing a gaze point of the eye as a point on the screen where the first gaze axis intersects the screen. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coordinate transformation comprises performing a second coordinate transformation between the coordinate system of the camera and a coordinate system of a gimbal connected to the camera and performing a third coordinate transformation between the coordinate system of the gimbal and the world coordinate system and wherein the gimbal is used to move the camera. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein measuring the first location of the camera in the first coordinate system further comprises using camera orientation sensors. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein measuring the second location of the eye and the gaze direction of the eye within the second coordinate system further comprises using an asymmetric aperture method. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein measuring the second location of the eye and the gaze direction of the eye within the second coordinate system further comprises measuring a second gaze direction of the eye within in a coordinate system of the eye, selecting a point on the second gaze direction as a third location of the eye within the coordinate system of the eye, converting the second gaze direction to the gaze direction and the third location to the second location using a second coordinate transformation. 