A washing system for an elevated surface has a) a housing having a liquid application cleaning system therein; b) a support element that supports and elevates the washing system; c) a rigid member extending from a surface of the housing that faces away from a surface to be cleaned so that the cable, when supporting the cleaning system against the surface to be cleaned and connected to the housing at a connection point, exerts a rotational force on the cleaning system in relation to the fixed fulcrum at the roof top; and d) weights provided at a distance and direction from the connection point fulcrum to at least in part counterbalance the rotational force.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An automated cleaning device for cleaning a generally vertically extending exterior surface of a building comprising: a housing, the housing sized and shaped to permit cleaning of the generally vertically extending exterior surface of a building while minimizing liquid splashing away from the building during a cleaning operation; at least one cleaning element disposed in the housing and configured to rotate about a generally horizontal axis, the cleaning element having a horizontal length greater than its height; said cleaning element including a plurality of outwardly extending cleaning vanes extending at least partially beyond the housing and configured to contact the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building when the cleaning element is rotated; a first motor disposed on the housing operable to rotate the cleaning element; a cleaning liquid supply system provided to the housing, including a plurality of applicators, the plurality of applicators located and configured to spray cleaning liquid onto the generally vertically extending exterior surface during the cleaning operation; a second motor disposed on the housing operable to control vertical movement of the housing relative to the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building during cleaning of the surface; and a counterforce system disposed on the housing, the counterforce system configured to provide a substantially perpendicular continuous force on the housing and cleaning element towards the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building without the use of restraining cables to maintain the cleaning vanes in continuous contact with the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building during the cleaning operation. 2. The automated cleaning device of claim 1 including: a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element; supports rotatably mounting the first and second cleaning elements on the housing in positions whereby the first and second cleaning elements are operable to contact and clean said generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building; and separate motors operatively connected to the first and second cleaning elements for rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions. 3. The automated cleaning device of claim 1 wherein: the counterforce system comprises a counterbalance assembly. 4. The automated cleaning device of claim 3 wherein: the counterbalance assembly comprises a pole extending generally horizontally outwardly from the housing and a weight disposed at the end of the pole. 5. The automated cleaning device of claim 1 wherein: the cleaning liquid supply system provides deionized water for cleaning contaminants from the generally vertically extending exterior surface. 6. An automated cleaning system for cleaning a generally vertically extending exterior surface of a building comprising: a cleaning unit suspended over the side of the building; the cleaning unit including a housing, the housing sized and shaped to permit cleaning of the generally vertically extending exterior surface while minimizing liquid splashing outward from the building during cleaning operation; at least one cleaning element disposed in the housing and configured to rotate about a generally horizontal axis, the cleaning element having a horizontal length greater than its vertical height; said cleaning element having a plurality of outwardly extending cleaning vanes operable to contact the generally vertical extending exterior surface of the building during the cleaning operation; a drive motor operable to rotate the cleaning element; a motor disposed on the housing operable to control movement of the cleaning unit in a vertical direction during a cleaning operation; a counterforce system disposed on the housing, the counterforce system configured to provide a substantially perpendicular continuous force on the housing and cleaning element towards the generally vertically extending exterior surface without the use of restraining cables to maintain the cleaning vanes in contact with the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building during the cleaning operation; a rooftop suspending element configured to suspend the cleaning unit from the top of the building; and a cable connecting the rooftop suspending element to the cleaning unit. 7. The automated cleaning system of claim 6 wherein: the counterforce system of the cleaning unit comprise a counterbalance assembly. 8. The automated cleaning system of claim 7 wherein: the counterbalance assembly comprises a pole extending generally horizontally outwardly from the housing with a weight disposed at the end of the pole. 9. The automated cleaning system of claim 6 wherein: the cleaning unit further comprises a cleaning liquid supply system comprising a plurality of applicators located and configured to spray cleaning liquid onto the generally vertically extending exterior surface during cleaning operation. 10. The automated cleaning system of claim 9 wherein: the cleaning liquid supply system provides deionized water for cleaning contaminants from the generally vertically extending exterior surface. 11. The automated cleaning system of claim 6 including: a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element; supports rotatably mounting the first and second cleaning elements on the housing in positions whereby the first and second cleaning elements are operable to contact and clean said generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building; and separate motors operatively connected to the first and second cleaning elements for rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions. 12. An automated cleaning device for cleaning a generally vertically extending surface comprising: a carriage; at least one generally cylindrical cleaning element disposed on the carriage and configured to rotate about a generally horizontal axis; a drive motor operable to rotate the cleaning element; a motor disposed on the carriage operable to control movement of the automated cleaning device in a generally vertical direction relative to the generally vertically extending surface during a cleaning operation; at least one applicator located and configured to spray a cleaning liquid onto the generally vertically extending surface during the cleaning operation; and a counterforce system disposed on the carriage, the counterforce system configured to provide a substantially horizontal perpendicular continuous force on the carriage and cleaning element towards the generally vertically extending surface without the use of restraining cables to maintain the cleaning element in contact with the generally vertically extending surface during the cleaning operation. 13. The automated cleaning device of claim 12 wherein: the cleaning liquid is deionized water for cleaning contaminants from the generally vertically extending surface. 14. The automated cleaning device of claim 12 wherein: the counterforce system comprises a counterbalance assembly. 15. The automated cleaning device of claim 14 wherein: the counterbalance assembly comprises a pole extending generally horizontally outwardly from the housing with a weight disposed at the end of the pole. 16. The automated cleaning device of claim 12 including: a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element; supports rotatably mounting the first and second cleaning elements on the housing in positions whereby the first and second cleaning elements are operable to contact and clean said generally vertically extending surface; and separate motors operatively connected to the first and second cleaning elements for rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions. 17. An apparatus for cleaning an upright surface of a structure comprising: a carriage; at least on cleaning element rotatably mounted on the carriage operable to contact and clean the upright surface of the structure; supports rotatably mounting the cleaning element on the carriage for rotation about a generally horizontal axis; a first motor operably connected to the cleaning element to rotate the cleaning element; at least one liquid applicator mounted on the carriage above the cleaning element operable to dispense a liquid toward the upright surface of the structure; a support mountable on the structure having the upright surface above the carriage; said support including an elongated flexible member extended downwardly adjacent the upright surface, a second motor mounted on the carriage operably connected to the flexible member to control vertical movement of the carriage, cleaning element and liquid applicator relative to said upright surface of the structure thereby cleaning said upright surface of the structure; and counterforce apparatus mounted on the carriage operable to provide a substantially horizontal continuous force on the carriage and cleaning element perpendicular to the upright surface to maintain the cleaning element in cleaning engagement with said surface of the structure during the vertical movement of the cleaning element relative to said surface of the structure. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 including: said counterforce apparatus including rigid member, at least one weight mounted on the rigid member outwardly of the cleaning element to counterbalance the carriage and cleaning element and retain the cleaning element in continuous operative engagement with the upright surface of the structure. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein: the cleaning element comprises a roller having outwardly extended flexible foam strips. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 including: a first cleaning element; a second cleaning element; supports rotatably mounting the first and second cleaning elements on the carriage operable to contact and clean the upright surface of the structure; and separate motors operatively connected to the first and second cleaning elements for rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions. 21. The apparatus of claim 17 including: a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element; supports rotatably mounting the first and second cleaning elements on the housing in positions whereby the first and second cleaning elements are operable to contact and clean said generally vertically extending exterior surface of the structure; and separate motors operatively connected to the first and second cleaning elements for rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions. 