One aspect can relate to detecting a presence of an at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual based at least partially on addition of an at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least one chemical identifying additive responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy is being applied proximal to the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: detecting a presence of an at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual based at least partially on addition of an at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least one chemical identifying additive responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy is applied proximal to the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of emission of the at least some input energy, a substantially distinct direction of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct time of emission of the at least some input energy. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct direction of emission of the at least some input energy. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct time of emission of the at least some input energy. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied with a substantially distinct direction of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct time of emission of the at least some input energy. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of induced X-ray fluorescence within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location and orientation of emission of the at least some input energy and a substantially distinct position and orientation of induced X-ray fluorescence within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on the addition of the at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual to enhance or induce the generation of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on the addition of an at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual to enhance or induce the generation of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing at least partially comprises determining a location information of an at least one X-ray fluorescing event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one chemical identifying additive includes at least one from a group, the group includes at least one of an at least one tracer, an at least one additive, ran at least one agent, an at least one marker, or an at least one taggant. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an energy level of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an energy level of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon, and wherein the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material determines a matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information is performed at least partially by determining location information on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy comprises at least some energy from an at least some applied energy group, the at least some applied energy group includes at least some X-rays, at least some gamma rays, at least some electrons, or at least some ions. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information occurs at least partially through to a prescribed fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 16. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information occurs at least partially through to within a range of fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes at least one human, an at least one animal, an at least one organism, and/or at least one plant. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter includes at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, at least a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth or a portion thereof, or an at least one implant. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon as generated has an energy of greater than or equal to at least one voltage level group, the at least one voltage level group includes 1 KeV, 10 KeV, or 100 KeV. 20. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information includes anatomically X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information. 21. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information includes functionally X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information. 22. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information is based at least in part on at least one time of flight computation derived at least in part from a combination of a source location of, and direction of application of, the at least some applied energy, in combination with a location of detection of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 23. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual includes X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information for a machine-based user. 24. The method of claim 8, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual includes X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or providing information for a human user. 25. A method, comprising: detecting a presence of at least one chemical identifying additive to an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least one chemical identifying additive within at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy applied proximal to the at least one chemical identifying additive contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially based on a composition of the at least one chemical identifying additive at least partially responsive to the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially based on the composition of the at least one chemical identifying additive, at least partially responsive to the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing at least partially comprises determining a location information of an at least one X-ray fluorescing event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 28. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least one chemical identifying additive, includes at least one from a group, the group includes at least one of an at least one tracer, an at least one additive, an at least one agent, an at least one marker, or an at least one taggant. 29. The method of claim 25, further comprising: determining an energy level of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising: determining an energy level of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon, and wherein the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive determines a matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 31. The method of claim 25, wherein the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive detects at least some matter density or at least some matter composition of the at least one chemical identifying additive. 32. The method of claim 25, wherein the detecting the presence of at least one chemical identifying additive is performed on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 33. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some X-rays. 34. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some gamma rays. 35. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some electrons. 36. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some ions. 37. The method of claim 25, wherein the detecting the presence of at least one chemical identifying additive occurs at least partially to a prescribed substantial X-ray fluorescence depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 38. The method of claim 25, wherein the detecting the presence of at least one chemical identifying additive occurs at least partially to an X-ray fluorescence range of X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 39. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least one individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes a human, an animal, an organism, and/or a plant. 40. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter includes at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth, or a portion thereof, or an at least partially internal insert. 41. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon has an energy of greater than or equal to at least one energy group, the at least one energy group includes 1 KeV, 10 KeV, or 100 KeV. 42. The method of claim 25, wherein the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive comprises: anatomically detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive. 43. The method of claim 25, wherein the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive comprises: functionally detecting the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive. 44. A method, comprising: adding an at least one chemical identifying additive to an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual; and detecting a presence of an at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on the adding the at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual, wherein the detecting the presence of the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material is based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy is being applied proximal to the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on the at least one chemical identifying additive. 