A method of performing a surgery is provided including a surgical navigation system having a tracking system, computer and monitor placed outside of a sterile field. An input pad and a tracking array attachable to a surgical instrument or bone are placed into the sterile field along with a probe having a probe array. The tracking array and the probe array are acquired by the tracking system and a virtual mouse is activated by positioning the probe relative to the input pad, thereby causing a mouse input to the computer with the virtual mouse.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a surgery, comprising: providing a surgical navigation system having a tracking system, computer and monitor placed outside of a sterile field; placing a tracking array into the sterile field, the tracking array including a frame and being attachable to a surgical instrument being used by a surgeon to perform the surgery or a bone, wherein the frame of the tracking array has an input pad disposed on its outer surface; placing a probe having a probe array within the sterile field; acquiring the tracking array and the probe array with the tracking system; activating a virtual mouse by positioning the probe relative to the input pad; and causing a mouse input to the computer with the virtual mouse. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the virtual mouse with the probe comprises positioning a tip of the probe substantially near a pad marker located on the input pad to cause the mouse input. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the mouse input comprises identifying a function on the monitor with a pointer. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising moving the tip of the probe away from the pad marker to cause a second mouse input. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the second mouse input comprises selecting the function on the monitor. 6. The method of claim 3, further comprising occluding the probe array to cause a second mouse input. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the second mouse input comprises selecting the function on the monitor. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the virtual mouse with the probe comprises moving the probe substantially near the input pad to cause a pointer on the monitor to correspondingly move. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the virtual mouse with the probe comprises moving a tip of the probe along a substantially flat surface of the input pad to cause the mouse input. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the mouse input comprises moving a pointer to correspondingly position a cursor on the monitor over an icon. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising moving the tip of the probe away from the pad marker to cause a second mouse input. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the second mouse input comprises selecting the function displayed by the monitor. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising occluding the probe array to cause a second mouse input. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second mouse input comprises selecting the function displayed by the monitor. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the probe away from the input pad to manipulate a corresponding object on the computer monitor, the corresponding object being a human anatomy image. 16. A surgical navigation system, comprising: a computer having a monitor and surgical navigation utilities software; a tracking system coupled to the computer and establishing a measurement field; a tracking array recognizable by the tracking system when exposed to the measurement field, the tracking array including a frame and being attachable to a surgical instrument being used by a surgeon to perform the surgery or a bone; an input pad disposed on an outer surface of the frame; and a probe having a probe array recognizable by the tracking system when exposed to the measurement field; wherein the software comprises a program that when executed causes the system to recognize positioning of the probe relative to the input pad as a mouse input. 17. The surgical navigation system of claim 16, wherein the input pad comprises a pad array associated therewith. 18. The surgical navigation system of claim 16, further comprising a pad marker located on the input pad, the pad marker configured to cooperate with the probe during use of the system to cause the mouse input. 19. The surgical navigation system of claim 18, wherein movement of the probe's tip near the pad marker during operation of the system causes the mouse input. 20. The surgical navigation system of claim 19, wherein movement of the probe's tip away from the pad marker during operation of the system causes a second mouse input. 21. The surgical navigation system of claim 19, wherein occlusion of the probe array from exposure to the measurement field during operation of the system causes a second mouse input. 22. The surgical navigation system of claim 16, wherein the input pad has a substantially flat surface and the probe has a tip, movement of which along the substantially flat surface during operation of the system causes the mouse input. 23. The surgical navigation system of claim 22, wherein movement of the tip away from the surface causes a second mouse input. 24. The surgical navigation system of claim 22, wherein occlusion of the probe array from exposure to the measurement field causes a second mouse input. 25. The surgical navigation system of claim 16, wherein the tracking array comprises an instrument array or a bone reference array. 