The invention provides for a printed circuit board (PCB) assembly for a pagewidth printer. The assembly includes a number of modular printhead controller PCBs each configured to control a respective modular printhead integrated circuit, and modular supports defining a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof. Each PCB has electrical connecting strips which operatively overlie the respective recessed portions. The assembly also includes at least one connecting member for operatively connecting respective PCBs to each other, each connecting member having a series of parallel spaced conducting strips, said member shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two PCBs via said conducting strips.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printed circuit board (PCB) assembly for a pagewidth printer, said assembly comprising: a number of modular PCBs each configured to control a respective modular printhead integrated circuit; modular supports defining a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof, each PCB having electrical connecting strips which operatively overlie the respective recessed portions; at least one connecting member for operatively connecting respective PCBs to each other, each connecting member having a series of parallel spaced conducting strips, said member shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two PCBs via said conducting strips; and a printer controller configured to synchronize operation of the respective PCBs during printing. 2. The PCB assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips of each connecting member are provided in a 2:1 relationship with the connecting strips of the PCB. 3. The PCB assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting strips are each about 0.4 mm wide with a 0.4 mm gap between adjacent strips. 4. The PCB assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips are gold plated. 5. The PCB assembly of claim 1, wherein each connecting member is a rectangular block having the series of conducting strips on each surface thereof. 6. The PCB assembly of claim 1, wherein each conducting strip is formed on one surface of the connecting member. 7. The PCB assembly of claim 1, wherein each connecting member is formed of a strip of silicone rubber printed to provide sequentially spaced conductive and non-conductive material strips. 