A sterile drape with integrated sterile adaptor, a telerobotic surgical system, and method of use are provided for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system to maintain a sterile barrier between the sterile surgical field and the non-sterile robotic system while also providing an interface for transferring mechanical and electrical energy and signals.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field, wherein the manipulator arm includes a spring loaded input; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape covering the manipulator arm to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field, the sterile drape including a sterile adaptor configured to engage the spring loaded input of the manipulator arm and further configured to engage the surgical instrument. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the manipulator arm is a patient side manipulator arm or an endoscope camera manipulator arm. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the sterile adaptor includes an electrical contact for interfacing with an electrical contact on the manipulator arm and with an electrical contact on the surgical instrument. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the electrical contact of the sterile adaptor is insert molded into a housing of the sterile adaptor. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the sterile adaptor includes a disk with apertures and teeth for engaging the manipulator arm and the sterile instrument. 8. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape covering the manipulator arm to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field, the sterile drape including a sterile adaptor for interfacing between the manipulator arm and the surgical instrument, wherein the manipulator arm includes an adaptor receiving portion that has spring loaded inputs for engaging the adaptor. 9. A method of coupling a surgical instrument to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: providing a sterile drape including: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving a non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; and a sterile adaptor for interfacing between a manipulator arm in the non-sterile field and a surgical instrument in the sterile field; positioning the sterile drape over the manipulator arm; placing the adaptor over a receiving portion of the manipulator arm and engaging a disk of the adaptor with a spring loaded input of the receiving portion of the manipulator arm; and coupling the adaptor with the surgical instrument. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein coupling the adaptor with the surgical instrument includes installing the instrument over the adaptor and engaging a disk of the adaptor with a pin of the instrument. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising fully covering the manipulator arm with the sterile drape. 