An apparatus for capturing images. In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises: a coded lens array including a plurality of lenses arranged in a coded pattern and with opaque material blocking array elements that do not contain lenses; and a light-sensitive semiconductor sensor coupled to the coded lens array and positioned at a specified distance behind the coded lens array, the light-sensitive sensor configured to sense light transmitted through the lenses in the coded lens array.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for coding images comprising: a light-sensitive sensor configured to detect visible light representing a scene; a coded lens array including a plurality of lenses arranged in a first dimension and a second dimension and coupled together to form a two dimensional coded pattern cyclically repeated at least once in both dimensions, a plurality of baffles arranged in front of or behind each lens of the plurality of lenses to establish a maximum angle at which visible light of the scene can pass through the coded lens array and reach the light-sensitive sensor, the baffles causing baffle attenuation resulting in a different level of intensity of the visible light at different regions of the light-sensitive sensor; wherein the coded pattern is arranged to cause an overlapping of images projected from lenses onto the light-sensitive sensor; an analog to digital converter electrically coupled to the light sensitive sensor, the A/D converter to convert an analog signal representing visible light detected by the light-sensitive sensor to a digital signal; and an image reconstruction processor to process the digital signal and generate a reconstructed image of the scene, the reconstruction processor including program code and/or circuitry to compensate for the baffle attenuation by adjusting intensity at different regions of the reconstructed image. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the light-sensitive sensor is a light-sensitive semiconductor sensor coupled to the coded lens array and positioned at a specified distance behind the coded lens array, the light-sensitive sensor configured to sense light transmitted through the lenses in the coded lens array. 3. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the baffles are sized to limit the field of view (FOV) to be greater than or equal to a fully-coded FOV projected onto the light-sensitive sensor. 4. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the coded pattern is a Uniformly Redundant Array (URA) pattern. 5. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the coded pattern is a Modified Uniformly Redundant Array (MURA) pattern. 6. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the coded pattern is a random pattern. 7. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein there is opaque material blocking array elements which do not contain lenses. 8. The apparatus as in claim 2 further comprising: an image sensor readout subsystem communicatively coupled to receive image data from the light-sensitive semiconductor sensor and to dynamically adjust zero offset and/or gain of pixel values of the image data. 9. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the coded pattern is a Perfect Binary Array (PBA) pattern. 10. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein adjusting intensity at different regions of the reconstructed image comprises multiplying each pixel of the reconstructed image by an inverse of a baffle attenuation value the pixel was subjected to. 11. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the light sensitive sensor is approximately 1/4 the size of the coded lens array. 12. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the lenses within the coded lens array are plano-convex lenses. 13. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the image reconstruction processor further comprises: a noise-reducing smoothing filter having a filter characteristic adjusted for each pixel or each region of the reconstructed image according to signal-to-noise ratio variations within the reconstructed image. 14. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the light-sensitive sensor comprises a color filter array ("CFA") for capturing color images. 15. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the light-sensitive sensor comprises a multi-layer color image sensor. 16. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein each of the baffles comprise opaque material forming an apertures having a specified shape and size to establish the maximum angles at which the visible light from the scene can pass through the lens and reach the sensor. 17. The apparatus as in claim 16 wherein the aperture formed by each baffle are polygonally shaped. 18. The apparatus as in claim 16 wherein the plurality of baffles are formed out of a solid opaque material. 19. An apparatus method for coding images comprising: a light-sensitive sensor configured to detect visible light representing a scene; a plurality of lenses arranged in a two dimensional coded pattern over a first dimension and a second dimension, the coded pattern cyclically repeated at least once in both dimensions to cause an overlapping of images projected from lenses onto the light-sensitive sensor; a plurality of baffles arranged in front of or behind each lens of the plurality of lenses to limit a field of view (FOV) of the scene to be equal to or greater than a fully-coded FOV projected onto the light-sensitive sensor, the baffles causing baffle attenuation resulting in a different level of intensity of the visible light at different regions of the light-sensitive sensor; an analog to digital converter electrically coupled to the light sensitive sensor, the A/D converter to convert an analog signal representing visible light detected by the light-sensitive sensor to a digital signal; and an image reconstruction processor to process the digital signal and generate a reconstructed image of the scene, the reconstruction processor including program code and/or circuitry to compensate for baffle attenuation by adjusting intensity at different regions of the image. 20. The apparatus as in claim 19 further comprising: positioning the light-sensitive sensor at a specified distance behind the coded lens array to ensure that, given the size of the baffles, the field of view (FOV) is greater than or equal to a fully-coded FOV projected onto the light-sensitive sensor, wherein the sensor is a light-sensitive sensor configured to sense light transmitted through the lenses in the coded lens array. 21. The apparatus as in claim 20 further comprising: generating image data using the light transmitted through the lenses and sensed by the light-sensitive sensor, the image data representing an image of a subject positioned in front of the coded lens array. 22. The apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the coded pattern is a Uniformly Redundant Array (URA) pattern. 23. The apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the coded pattern is a Modified Uniformly Redundant Array (MURA) pattern. 24. The apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the coded pattern is a random pattern. 25. The apparatus as in claim 19 further comprising opaque material blocking array elements which do not contain lenses. 26. The apparatus as in claim 20 further comprising: receiving image data from the light-sensitive semiconductor sensor and adjusting zero offset and/or gain of pixel values of the image data. 27. The method as in claim 19 wherein the coded pattern is a Perfect Binary Array (PBA) pattern. 28. An apparatus comprising: a light-sensitive sensor configured to detect visible light representing a scene; and a coded lens array including a first plurality of lenses arranged in a two dimensional coded pattern over a first dimension and a second dimension and cyclically repeated at least once in both dimensions, wherein the coded pattern is arranged to cause an overlapping of images projected from lenses onto the light-sensitive sensor means; a plurality of baffles arranged in front of or behind each lens of the plurality of lenses; a second plurality of lenses arranged within the plurality of baffles, each of the second plurality of lenses configured to translate back and forth along an optical axis defined by each of the first plurality of lenses; an analog to digital converter electrically coupled to the light sensitive sensor, the A/D converter to convert an analog signal representing visible light detected by the light-sensitive sensor to a digital signal; and an image reconstruction processor to process the digital signal and generate a reconstructed image of the scene. 29. The apparatus as in claim 28 wherein the light-sensitive sensor is a light-sensitive semiconductor sensor coupled to the coded lens array and positioned at a specified distance behind the coded lens array, the light-sensitive sensor configured to sense light transmitted through the lenses in the coded lens array. 30. The apparatus as in claim 29 further comprising: a plurality of gears rotatably engaged together, wherein rotation of one of the gears causes all of the plurality of gears to rotate in either a clockwise or a counter-clockwise motion; and a plurality of cylinders rotatably coupled within the baffles, each one of the cylinders housing one of the second plurality of lenses and translationally coupled to all or a subset of the plurality of gears, wherein, in response to turning one of the gears in a clockwise motion, the cylinders translate in a first direction along the optical axis and, wherein, in response to turning one of the gears in a counter-clockwise motion, the cylinders translate in a second direction along the optical axis, thereby focusing the visible light on the light sensitive sensor. 31. The apparatus as in claim 28 wherein the coded pattern is a Uniformly Redundant Array (URA) pattern. 32. The apparatus as in claim 28 wherein the coded pattern is a Modified Uniformly Redundant Array (MURA) pattern. 33. The apparatus as in claim 28 wherein the coded pattern is a random pattern. 34. The apparatus as in claim 28 further comprising opaque material blocking array elements which do not contain lenses. 35. The apparatus as in claim 29 further comprising: threads formed on each of the cylinders which engage with pins formed on the baffles, wherein the threads and pins cause the cylinders to translate in the first direction along the optical axis when one of the gears is rotated in a clockwise motion and cause the cylinders to translate in the second direction along the optical axis when one of the gears is rotated in a counter-clockwise motion. 36. The apparatus as in claim 28 wherein the coded pattern is a Perfect Binary Array (PBA) pattern. 37. An apparatus for coding images comprising: a light-sensitive sensor configured to detect visible light representing a scene; and a plurality of lenses arranged into a two dimensional coded pattern over a first dimension and a second dimension, the coded pattern cyclically repeated in both dimensions, wherein the coded pattern is arranged to cause an overlapping of images projected from lenses onto the light-sensitive sensors; an analog to digital converter electrically coupled to the light sensitive sensor, the A/D converter to convert an analog signal representing visible light detected by the light-sensitive sensor to a digital signal; an image sensor readout subsystem electrically coupled to the A/D converter and the light-sensitive sensor, the image sensor readout subsystem to dynamically adjust zero offset and gain applied to pixel values read from the light-sensitive sensor by performing the operations of: selecting an initial zero offset value and an initial gain value; determining whether any pixel values output from the A/D converter have a zero value and, if so, then decreasing a current zero offset value by a zero offset step value; and determining whether any pixel values output from the A/D converter have a maximum output value and, if so, then decreasing a current gain value by a gain step value. 38. The apparatus as in claim 37 wherein the image sensor readout subsystem performs the additional operations of: if there are no pixel values output from the A/D converter which have a zero value, then determining if the current zero offset step value is a minimum possible zero offset step value and, if not, then adding the current zero offset step value to the current zero offset value and decreasing the current zero offset step value to produce a new zero offset step value; and determining again whether any pixel values output from the A/D converter have a zero value and, if so, then decreasing a current zero offset value by the new zero offset step value. 39. The apparatus as in claim 38 wherein the image sensor readout subsystem performs the additional operations of: if there are no pixel values output from the A/D converter which have a maximum output value, then determining if the current gain step value is a minimum possible gain stern value and, if not, then adding the current gain step value to the current gain value and decreasing the current gain step value to produce a new gain step value; and determining again whether any pixel values output from the A/D converter have a maximum output value and, if so, then decreasing a current gain value by the new gain step value. 40. The apparatus as in claim 37 wherein the coded pattern is a Uniformly Redundant Array (URA) pattern. 41. The apparatus as in claim 37 wherein the coded pattern is a Modified Uniformly Redundant Array (MURA) pattern. 42. The apparatus as in claim 37 wherein the coded pattern is a random pattern. 43. The apparatus as in claim 37 further comprising opaque material blocking array elements which do not contain lenses. 44. The apparatus as in claim 38 further comprising: receiving image data from the light-sensitive semiconductor sensor and adjusting zero offset and/or gain of pixel values of the image data. 45. The apparatus as in claim 37 further comprising: collimating light passing between the coded lens array and the light-sensitive semiconductor sensor. 46. The apparatus as in claim 45 wherein the collimating is performed using a plurality of baffles. 