A vehicle includes a submersible housing and a propulsion mechanism, which is coupled to drive the housing over an interior surface of a container in which the housing is submerged. A hollow tube is fixed to the housing and is configured to be filled with a fluid having a first specific gravity. One or more objects, which have a second specific gravity that is less than the first specific gravity, are contained within and capable of moving inside the hollow tube so as to stabilize the housing in response to changes of an angle of the interior surface over which the vehicle travels.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A vehicle, comprising: a submersible housing, having ingress and egress ports; an impeller, which is disposed within the housing so as to draw water into the housing through the ingress port and to expel the water through the egress port; a filter, which is contained within the housing and configured to communicate with the ingress and egress ports so as to trap contaminants in the water as the water passes through the housing; a propulsion mechanism, which is coupled to drive the housing over an interior surface of a container in which the housing is submerged; a hollow tube, which is fixed to the housing and is configured to be filled with a fluid having a first specific gravity; and one or more objects, which have a second specific gravity that is less than the first specific gravity and which are contained within and capable of moving inside the hollow tube so as to maintain a constant attitude of the vehicle relative to the interior surface along which the vehicle travels. 2. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the hollow tube is configured to serve as a handle for lifting the vehicle. 3. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the hollow tube has one or more openings, which are configured to permit the fluid to flow into the hollow tube when the vehicle is submerged in the fluid, and to drain out of the hollow tube when the vehicle is removed from the fluid. 4. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the one or more objects comprise at least one ball. 5. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the hollow tube comprises a curved segment and is configured so that the one or more objects congregate at a center of the curved segment while the vehicle travels over a horizontal part of the interior surface and move to an end of the curved segment when the vehicle travels on a tilted part of the interior surface. 