An inventory control and prescription management and dispensing system including a dispensing vault for storing and dispensing prescriptions in communication with a central computer system which communicates with prescription providers, insurance companies and other third parties. The vault includes robotic means for dispensing pre-filled prescriptions with the aid of RFIDs, barcodes or other means for verifying the medication to be dispensed. The vault uses patient biometrics, a patient registration system, insurance information and doctor information to process the transaction and dispense a specifically labeled pre-filled prescription to the patient.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for providing high density storage of, and random access to, prescription medications for dispensing through a remote dispensing system comprising the steps of: a. providing a remote dispensing system with a vault for storing said prescription medications; b. providing a plurality of shelves within said vault, each of said shelves connected to, and rotatable about, a central support axel; c. providing a plurality of receiving spaces for storing said prescription medication on each shelve; d. assigning a unique location coordinate for each of said receiving spaces on each of said shelves; e. stocking said receiving spaces with said prescription medications; f. creating a database containing the location coordinate for each of said prescription medications; g. providing a slot in each of said shelves, said slots alignable to create a vertical passage through all of said shelves; h. providing a robotic arm within said vault, said robotic arm capable of vertical movement through said vertical passage and horizontal movement within said slots; i. providing a computer to operate said robotic arm and to manage said database; j. whereby, each of said receiving spaces may be randomly accessed by said robotic arm by aligning said slots, moving said robotic arm vertically to a first position immediately above the shelve to be accessed, rotating said shelve to be accessed under said robotic arm, and moving said robotic arm horizontally to a specified receiving space. 2. A method for stocking an automatic dispensing machine comprising the steps of: a. providing an automatic dispensing machine; b. providing a [lockable] transport carton containing a plurality of individual products to be stocked; c. inserting said transport carton into said automatic dispensing machine; d. removing said individual products from said transport carton; e. placing each of said individual products in a unique storage location identifiable by Cartesian coordinates; and f. creating a database of said unique storage locations. 3. The method of claim 2 further including the steps of: a. identifying each of said individual products and creating a database of said identified products; and b. associating said database of said identified products with said database of unique storage locations. 