Improved apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided that use a pedestal robot mounted on a rail system, a probe extension coupler, and an inspection probe capable of performing pulse echo ultrasonic inspection. A probe may also include sled appendages and an axial braking system to inspect over holes and off edges. A probe may also include an ultrasonic pulse echo transducer array for high rate inspection; the transducer array may be mounted in a bubbler shoe for individually coupling each of the transducers in the array. A rail system may also include an optical encoder for providing location information for the robot and axial braking system. A probe extension coupler presses the inspection probe against the structure for adjusting to changes in surface contours.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A system for non-destructive inspection of a structure, comprising: a motion control system comprising a robot control system, wherein the robot control system comprises a robotic arm; an extension coupler attached to the robotic arm, the extension coupler having an extendable and retractable distal end; and an inspection probe attached to the distal end of the extension coupler, configured for traveling over holes and off edges of the structure, and comprising at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer configured for inspecting the structure as the inspection probe and transducer are moved over the structure by at least one of the motion control system and extension coupler, wherein the extension coupler is configured to extend and retract the first end to which the inspection probe is attached for applying pressure to the inspection probe to press the inspection probe against the structure, and wherein the extension coupler is configured to temporarily lock the extended or retracted position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler when the inspection probe passes over one or more of the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure, thereby preventing the inspection probe from extending past the surface of the structure into the hole or off the edge of the structure by the pressure applied to the inspection probe by the extension coupler. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot control system is configured for being attached to and moved along a rail system, and wherein the motion control system further comprises a rail system to which the robot control system is attached, the rail system being capable of moving the attached robot control system. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the motion control system comprises a controller for controlling the movement of at least one of the rail system and the robot control system. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the rail system is configured for controlling linear motion to the attached motion control system. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the rail system comprises: a rail support structure; and a robot carriage to which the robot control system is mounted and for traveling along the rail support structure, thereby moving the robot control system along the rail system. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the motion control system comprises an optical encoder capable of measuring and transmitting the position of the motion control system with respect to the structure. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot control system comprises a pedestal robot configured for controlling the motion of the extension coupler in at least two directions of motion. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the extension coupler comprises: a dual action cylinder having an extendable and retractable cylinder piston rod having a first end protruding from the dual action cylinder; a transition rod connected to the protruding first end of the cylinder piston rod for translating the motion of the cylinder piston rod, the transition rod having a first end connected to the protruding distal end of the cylinder piston rod and a second end; and a transducer extension rod connected to the second end of the transition rod for translating the motion of the transition rod and the cylinder piston rod, the transducer extension rod having a first end connected to the second end of the transition rod and a second end forming the distal end of the extension coupler. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the extension coupler further comprises a pillow block bearing surrounding a portion of the transducer extension rod between the first and second ends of the transducer extension rod and configured for stabilizing the transducer extension rod. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the inspection probe comprises: a frame configured for attaching to the second end of the extension coupler and for supporting the transducer; at least one sled appendage configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendage. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the motion control system is capable of providing a braking signal to the braking system of the probe based upon a determination of the location of the probe with respect to a predetermined location of at least one of a hole and an edge of the structure known to the motion control system. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the inspection probe comprises: a bubbler shoe configured for supporting a plurality of transducers and dispersing a couplant between the transducers supported thereby and the surface over which the inspection probe travels; and a plurality of transducers supported by the bubbler shoe. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the motion control system is configured for interpreting electronic data representing the configuration of the structure for controlling movement of the probe over the structure for inspection and for providing the ability to communicate the location of holes and edges to at least one of the extension coupler and the inspection probe. 14. A system for non-destructive inspection of a surface of a structure, wherein the surface comprises at least one edge defined by at least one of a hole cut-out in the surface and an extent of the surface, comprising: a motion control system comprising a robot control system, wherein the robot control system comprises a robotic arm; an extension coupler attached to the robotic arm, the extension coupler having an extendable and retractable distal end; and an inspection probe attached to the distal end of the extension coupler and comprising at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer configured for inspecting the structure as the inspection probe and transducer are moved over the structure by at least one of the motion control system and extension coupler, wherein the inspection probe is configured for traveling past the at least one edge and off the surface of the structure and returning onto the surface of the structure, wherein the extension coupler is configured to extend and retract the first end to which the inspection probe is attached for applying pressure to the inspection probe to press the inspection probe against the surface of the structure. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the extension coupler comprises: a dual action cylinder having an extendable and retractable cylinder piston rod having a first end protruding from the dual action cylinder; a transition rod connected to the protruding first end of the cylinder piston rod for translating the motion of the cylinder piston rod, the transition rod having a first end connected to the protruding distal end of the cylinder piston rod and a second end; and a transducer extension rod connected to the second end of the transition rod for translating the motion of the transition rod and the cylinder piston rod, the transducer extension rod having a first end connected to the second end of the transition rod and a second end forming the distal end of the extension coupler. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the extension coupler further comprises a pillow block bearing surrounding a portion of the transducer extension rod between the first and second ends of the transducer extension rod and configured for stabilizing the transducer extension rod. 17. A system for non-destructive inspection of a structure, comprising: an extension coupler comprising an extendable and retractable distal end; and an inspection probe attached to the distal end of the extension coupler, configured for traveling over holes and off edges of the structure, and comprising at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer configured for inspecting the structure as the inspection probe and transducer are moved over the structure by the extension coupler, wherein the extension coupler is configured to extend and retract the first end to which the inspection probe is attached for applying pressure to the inspection probe to press the inspection probe against the structure, and wherein the extension coupler is configured to temporarily lock the extended or retracted position of the inspection probe with respect to the extension coupler when the inspection probe passes over one or more of the edge of the hole, over the hole, over the edge of the structure, and past the edge of the structure, thereby preventing the inspection probe from extending past the surface of the structure into the hole or off the edge of the structure by the pressure applied to the inspection probe by the extension coupler. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the extension coupler comprises: a dual action cylinder having an extendable and retractable cylinder piston rod having a first end protruding from the dual action cylinder; a transition rod connected to the protruding first end of the cylinder piston rod for translating the motion of the cylinder piston rod, the transition rod having a first end connected to the protruding distal end of the cylinder piston rod and a second end; and a transducer extension rod connected to the second end of the transition rod for translating the motion of the transition rod and the cylinder piston rod, the transducer extension rod having a first end connected to the second end of the transition rod and a second end forming the distal end of the extension coupler. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the extension coupler further comprises a pillow block bearing surrounding a portion of the transducer extension rod between the first and second ends of the transducer extension rod and configured for stabilizing the transducer extension rod. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the inspection probe comprises: a frame configured for attaching to the second end of the extension coupler and for supporting the transducer; at least one sled appendage configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendage. 