A robotic data storage library comprising a virtual port and a method for providing a virtual port for a robotic data storage library are disclosed. The virtual exit port, for example, comprises one or more storage locations of the library that are defined as a virtual port. In one embodiment, for example, the virtual port comprises a virtual exit port for holding a data storage element that is to be exported from the library. In this embodiment, for example, the virtual exit port is defined prior to the library receiving a command to export a data storage element. In another embodiment, the virtual port comprises an entry port, an exit port or an entry/exit port. In yet another embodiment, a method for transferring a data storage element directly between an actual port (entry and/or exit) of a robotic data storage library and another location within the robotic data storage library not defined as the virtual port is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations substantially comprised within said library wherein each of said storage locations is capable of holding at least one data storage element; a data transfer interface adapted to establish a data transfer path between a host computer and said at least one data storage element; an actual exit port capable of transferring said at least one data storage element out of said library; a transport unit adapted to move said data storage element between said storage locations and between at least one of said storage locations and said actual exit port; a controller capable of receiving an export command to export said at least one data storage element from said library; at least one of said storage locations defined as a virtual exit port prior to receiving said export command wherein said virtual exit port is capable of receiving said at least one data storage element intended to be exported. 2. The robotic data storage library of claim 1 wherein said controller is further adapted to direct said transport unit to move said at least one data storage element from one of said plurality of storage locations to said virtual exit port. 3. The robotic data storage library of claim 1 wherein said controller is further adapted to direct said transport unit to move said at least one data storage element from said virtual exit port to said actual exit port. 4. The robotic data storage library of claim 1 wherein said controller further comprises a user interface for receiving a command to move said at least one data storage element from said virtual exit port to said actual exit port. 5. The robotic data storage library of claim 1 wherein said controller is further adapted to direct said transport unit to move said at least one data storage element directly from one of said plurality of storage locations to said actual exit port. 6. The robotic data storage library of claim 1 wherein said controller further comprises a user interface for receiving a command to move said at least one data storage element directly from one of said plurality of storage locations to said actual exit port. 7. The robotic data storage library of claim 1 wherein said virtual exit port is located in a preferred location. 8. The robotic data storage library of claim 7 wherein said preferred location comprises at least one magazine storage location. 9. The robotic data storage library of claim 7 wherein said preferred location comprises a plurality of contiguous storage locations. 10. The robotic data storage library of claim 7 wherein said preferred location comprises at least one of said storage locations located substantially adjacent to said actual exit port. 11. A robotic data storage library capable of performing the method steps of: receiving a first storage element export command from a host computer to transport at least one data storage element from a first storage location to an actual exit port wherein said library substantially contains at least said first storage location, a second storage location and a third storage location; designating said second storage location as a virtual exit port prior to receiving said first storage element export command wherein said virtual exit port is capable of receiving said at least one data storage element in response to said export command. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising moving said at least one data storage element from said first storage location to said virtual exit port in response to said first storage element export command. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising responding to said host that said export command has been carried out. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising receiving a second storage element export command to transport said at least one data storage element from said virtual exit port to said actual exit port. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising moving said at least one data storage element from said virtual exit port to said actual exit port in response to said second storage element export command. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising exporting said at least one storage element out of said library. 17. The method of claim 11 further comprising receiving a second storage element export command to transport a second data storage element from said third storage location to said actual exit port. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said third storage location is designated as a second virtual exit port. 19. The method of claim 11 wherein said step of defining said virtual exit port is performed via a device selected from the group consisting of: a control panel, a host computer and a controller of said library. 20. The method of claim 11 wherein said defining said virtual exit port comprises at least one preferred location selected from the group consisting of: at least one storage location in a magazine, a plurality of contiguous storage locations, a storage location located closest to said actual exit port, a storage location located substantially adjacent to said actual exit port, and at least one default storage location as said virtual exit port. 21. A robotic data storage library capable of performing the method steps comprising: receiving a first storage element export command from a host computer to transport at least one data storage element from a first storage location to an actual exit port wherein said first storage location is one of a plurality of storage locations substantially comprised within said library; designating at least a second storage location as a virtual exit port prior to receiving said first storage element export command wherein said virtual exit port is capable of receiving said at least one data storage element in response to said export command; responding to said host that said export command has been carried out; receiving a second storage element export command to transport said at one storage element out of said library; moving said at least one storage element out of said library in response to said second export command. 