The pointer-oriented object acquisition method for abstract treatment of information of the computer system of AI of a cyborg or an android based on a natural language. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method for abstract treatment of information of the computer system of AI of a cyborg or an android based on a natural language, in which three pointers are created in the computer main memory (in RAM) of the computer system of AI of a cyborg or an android in the natural language, in which the computer system is working at this timeframe, at runtime. In this way, the subjective object, the associative object and the abstract object of the computer system of AI of a cyborg or an android are instantiated and are initialized. With these objects, which are implemented in a natural language, one can access to, i.e. manipulate with the element variables, i.e. with the data elements, of a class of the classification tree of the computer system of AI of the cyborg or the android.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A pointer-oriented object acquisition method for tangible treatment of information of the computer system which is based on one natural language and in which a received signal-reaction of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android, a corresponding association of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android, a corresponding thought of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android are substantiated, characterized in that the first pointer in which the RAM (Random Access Memory) addresses of the inputs of all n reactions of all n sensor groups that represent all sense organs (or rather at least five sensor groups, the group of the sense of sight, the group of the sense of hearing, the group of the sense of smell, the group of the sense of taste, the group of the sense of touch and thereto all n groups from all n-Sense organ sensor groups else) are stored is substantiated and treated subjectively by the pointer-oriented object acquisition method in RAM of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android at run-time as a subjective object (as a received signal-reaction of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android), in a way of the thinking paradigm of the programming language C++, as in instancing an object on the Heap (the freely available memory storage area by dynamic memory allocation). 2. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 1, characterized in that a third pointer on the vocabulary of the computer system in which the RAM (Random Access Memory) address (of memory area in which each word of the vocabulary of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android is mapped, or rather is stored) of each parsed word of the associative object, or rather of the association, is stored together with the RAM address of the word that contains the abstract information of the parsed word in the context to the entire associative object is substantiated and treated tangibly in the one natural language by the pointer-oriented object acquisition method at run-time as an abstract object (as a corresponding thought of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android), in a way of the thinking paradigm of the programming language C++, as in instancing an object on the Heap (the freely available memory storage area by dynamic memory allocation). 3. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 1, characterized in that the subjective object, or rather the first pointer that is termed as the subjective object, is simultaneously acquired, however it is not considered relative to time. 4. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 1, characterized in that the subjective object, or rather the first pointer that is identified as the subjective object, after it has been completed associatively and relative to time will be stored by the pointer-oriented object acquisition method in the RAM (Random Access Memory) of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android at run-time as a second pointer that will be identified as an associative object (as a corresponding association of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android). 5. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 2, characterized in that the element variables of a class of the abstract object, i.e. data elements, are instantiated with the objects of the classes in which the words that belong to an interrogative of the natural language in which the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android is working at this timeframe are classified, i.e. with the interrogative of the question that is posed to a part of speech, or rather to a part of a sentence. 6. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 2, characterized in that the element functions of a class of the abstract object which manipulate with the element variables are initialized with the objects of the classes in which the words that belong to the word stem of a verb of the natural language in which the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android is working at this timeframe are classified and are instantiated under the element variable that is represented with an object of the class in which words that belong to the word stem of the verb "do" are classified. 7. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 2, characterized in that the auxiliaries, the modal verbs, the prepositions, the conjunctions and so on, which are to treat as constants, are stored in the natural language in which the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android is working at this timeframe under in each case an element variable that is defined with help of an object of the class in which the auxiliary, the modal verb, the preposition, the conjunction and so on, itself, is classified. 8. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 2, characterized in that the diverse parts of a sentence, for example the object, the subject, the predicate, the attributes, the adverbial modifiers, the local modifier, the temporal modifier etc., which consist of several words, are initialized by the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android in interpreting with the other variables defined previously and provided with a value. 9. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 8, characterized in that the parts of a sentence which consist of several words and which are initialized by the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android in interpreting with the other variables defined previously and provided with a value are deleted, i.e. are forgotten, at the fastest. 10. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 2, characterized in that the composite, compound or complex, sentences are decomposed by the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android in interpreting the abstract object in each case on the simple sentences at the same real timestamp. 11. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 2, characterized in that in order to perform the relativity to time of the abstract object of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android in the one natural language, the state of affairs of the abstract object, the personality to the abstract object etc. the abstract object is always stored with a modal verb, an auxiliary verb and so on. 12. A pointer-oriented object acquisition method for tangible treatment of information of the computer system which is based on one natural language and in which a received signal-reaction of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android, a corresponding association of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android, a corresponding thought of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android are substantiated, characterized in that the telepathy is implemented with transferring all three objects, i.e. the received signal-reaction, the corresponding association and the corresponding thought, of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android to another remote computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android simultaneously. 13. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 12, characterized in that the telepathy is implemented with transferring all three objects, i.e. the received signal-reaction, the corresponding association and the corresponding thought, of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android to another remote computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android with n-Sense, for example WLAN, in the sense of passing objects to a method with the mechanism "path-by-value". 14. The pointer-oriented object acquisition method according to claim 1, characterized in that the relativity to time during this pointer-oriented object acquisition method of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of a cyborg or an android can be implemented as six weekdays and one holiday. 15. A pointer-oriented object acquisition method of the computer system which is based on one natural language and in which a received signal-reaction of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of an android, a corresponding association of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of an android, a corresponding thought of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of an android are substantiated, characterized in that the first pointer in which the RAM (Random Access Memory) addresses of the inputs of all n reactions of all n sensor groups that represent all sense organs (or rather at least five sensor groups, the group of the sense of sight, the group of the sense of hearing, the group of the sense of smell, the group of the sense of taste, the group of the sense of touch and thereto all n groups from all n-Sense organ sensor groups else) are stored is substantiated and treated subjectively by the pointer-oriented object acquisition method in RAM of the computer system of Artificial Intelligence of an android at run-time as a subjective object (as a received signal-reaction of this computer system of Artificial Intelligence of an android), in a way of the thinking paradigm of the programming language C++, as in instancing an object on the Heap (the freely available memory storage area by dynamic memory allocation). 