A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, for treating diseased tissue with radiation, comprising: selecting a target disease from among a plurality of diseases, each of the plurality of diseases having an associated therapeutic dose of radiation; determining, based on the target disease, a maximal energy in an x-ray radiation beam to be emitted from a radiotherapy system, the x-ray radiation beam delivering substantially the therapeutic dose of radiation associated with the target disease to target tissue in a patient afflicted by the target disease; wherein each of the plurality of diseases requires a different maximal energy to achieve its associated therapeutic dose of radiation than the maximal energy required to achieve the associated therapeutic dose of radiation for another of the plurality of diseases; and wherein the maximal energy in the x-ray radiation beam is based on the selected target disease and beam energy attenuation due to any tissue overlying the target tissue; and outputting to an output module an indication of the determined maximal energy. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic dose of radiation associated with the target disease comprises a plurality of fractionated doses. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the target disease affects an eye of the patient and the radiation beam is emitted toward the eye. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of diseases comprises at least one of macular degeneration, a pterygium, an ocular tumor, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and a premalignant lesion. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising emitting x-ray radiation, based on the determined energy level, toward the target tissue to deliver a dose of radiation to the tissue. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising collimating the radiation to a radiation beam having cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the emitting comprises emitting a plurality of radiation beams toward the target tissue to deliver a dose of radiation to the tissue. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the emitting comprises emitting x-ray radiation toward the target tissue to deliver a dose of radiation to the tissue. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the emitting x-ray radiation comprises emitting a plurality of x-ray beams toward the tissue. 10. A system, for treating diseased tissue with radiation, comprising: a processing module that receives an input, the input comprising a selection of a target disease from among a plurality of diseases, each of the plurality of diseases having an associated therapeutic dose of radiation, the processing module further determining, based on the target disease, a maximal energy in an x-ray radiation beam to be emitted from a radiotherapy system, the x-ray radiation beam delivering substantially the therapeutic dose of radiation associated with the target disease to target tissue in a patient afflicted by the target disease; wherein each of the plurality of diseases requires a different maximal energy to achieve its associated therapeutic dose of radiation than the maximal energy required to achieve the associated therapeutic dose of radiation for another of the plurality of diseases; and wherein the maximal energy in the x-ray radiation beam is based on the selected target disease and beam energy attenuation due to any tissue overlying the target tissue; and an output module, coupled to the processing module, that outputs, based on the input, an indication of the determined maximal energy. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising the radiotherapy system, wherein the radiotherapy system is coupled to the output module and is configured to generate the radiation beam based on the indication of the determined maximal energy. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the radiotherapy system comprises a power supply adapted to deliver between about 10 mA and about 800 mA of current to an anode of an x-ray tube that generates x-ray radiation. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said anode is one of a stationary anode and a rotating anode. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the radiotherapy system further comprises a collimator that collimates the x-ray radiation to an x-ray beam having a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 15. A method, for treating diseased tissue with radiation, comprising: selecting a target disease from among a plurality of diseases, each of the plurality of diseases having an associated therapeutic dose of radiation; determining, based on the target disease, a maximal energy in a radiation beam to be emitted from a radiotherapy system, the radiation beam delivering substantially the therapeutic dose of radiation associated with the target disease to target tissue in a patient afflicted by the target disease; and outputting to an output module an indication of the determined maximal energy; inputting a maximum voltage to an x-ray tube of the radiotherapy system to a value of between about 30 kV and about 300 kV, based on the determined maximal energy; wherein each of the plurality of diseases requires a different maximal energy and/or surface-to-depth ratio to achieve the associated therapeutic dose of radiation for that disease than is required to achieve the associated therapeutic dose of radiation for another of the plurality of diseases. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising communicating the indication of the determined maximal energy from the output module to the radiotherapy system. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising emitting the radiation beam, based on the indication of the determined maximal energy, from the radiotherapy system toward the target tissue. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam with a collimator, such that the x-ray beam has a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the emitting comprises emitting a plurality of x-ray beams toward the target tissue to deliver fractionated doses of radiation to the tissue. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of diseases comprises at least one of macular degeneration, a pterygium, an ocular tumor, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and a premalignant lesion. 21. A method, of radiation therapy of an eye, comprising: for an ocular disease having an associated dose of radiation useful to treat that disease, providing a distance to a target of eye tissue afflicted by the disease from a radiation source, located outside the eye, that emits an x-ray radiations beam to deliver the dose of radiation to the target; and based on the distance of the target from the radiation source, outputting to an output module a maximal energy, of from about 50 keV to about 500 keV, required to achieve the dose of radiation in the x-ray radiation beam emitted from the radiation source to the target. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising communicating the maximal energy from the output module to the radiation source. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising emitting the radiation beam, from the radiation source, toward the target based on the maximal energy. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam with a collimator, such that the x-ray beam has a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising applying energy to the eye from a source different than the radiation source in combination with the x-ray beam. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the emitting comprises emitting a plurality of x-ray beams toward the tissue to deliver fractionated doses of radiation to the target. 27. The method of claim 23, further comprising applying a therapeutic agent to the eye in combination with the emitting the radiation beam. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the applying comprises injecting the therapeutic agent into the eye in combination with the emitting the radiation beam. 29. The method of claim 21, wherein the ocular disease comprises at least one of macular degeneration, a pterygium, an ocular tumor, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and a premalignant lesion. 