This invention relates to methods and apparatus for making articles made of polyester, preferably polyethylene terephthalate (PET), having coated directly to at least one of the surfaces thereof one or more layers of thermoplastic material with good gas-barrier characteristics. In one preferred method and apparatus, preforms are injection molded, barrier-coated immediately thereafter, and remain on a mold portion for a time to speed cooling of the completed preform. Preferably the barrier-coated articles take the form of preforms coated by at least one layer of barrier material and the containers are blow-molded therefrom. Such barrier-coated containers are preferably of the type to hold beverages such as soft drinks, beer or juice. The preferred barrier materials have a lower permeability to oxygen and carbon dioxide than PET as well as key physical properties similar to PET. The materials and methods provide that the barrier layers have good adherence to PET, even during and after the blow molding process to form containers from preforms. Preferred barrier coating materials include poly(hydroxyamino ethers).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A molding assembly for injection molding a two-layer preform, the molding assembly comprising: a cavity portion; and a mandrel portion being configured to rotate, the mandrel portion being divided into four stations, each station separated by 90 degrees of rotation; wherein a first station of the mandrel portion comprises a plurality of molding mandrels and a second station of the mandrel portion comprises a plurality of coating mandrels; wherein the first and second stations of the mandrel portion are configured to simultaneously mate with corresponding cavities of the cavity portion; and wherein the molding mandrels comprise a molding mandrel cooling system and the coating mandrels comprise a coating mandrel cooling system, wherein operating parameters of the molding cooling system are configured to be separately controlled from operating parameters of the coating cooling system. 2. The molding assembly of claim 1, wherein the cavity portion comprises at least two cavity stations, each cavity section comprising a plurality of cavities, each cavity comprising a cavity mold surface, wherein at least some of the cavities comprise a fluid insertion system. 3. The molding assembly of claim 2, the fluid insertion system comprises a notch along the cavity mold surface. 4. The injection molding assembly of claim 3, wherein the notch is at least partially circumferentially disposed around the cavity mold surface. 5. The molding assembly of claim 1, wherein mandrel portion comprises a high heat transfer material. 