A frame definition for use by dialog system during an interaction with a user, the frame definition includes at least one data field and at least one goal comprising a Boolean function of one or more filled predicates, each of which takes a reference to a field of the frame as its argument. A goal is satisfied during a dialog if the Boolean function evaluates to true. A goal may be used to control the focus of the interaction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for interpreting a frame definition, the frame definition comprising at least one data field and at least one goal, to control a dialog with a user, the method comprising: receiving information input from the user; updating frame data associated with the frame definition dependent upon the information input from the user; determining that at least one goal of the frame definition is activated, wherein a goal is activated when at least one field referred to inside the goal has been modified; selecting a goal that has been determined to be activated; if the selected activated goal is satisfied: evaluating final rules of the frame definition; and completing the interpretation of the frame definition; and if the selected activated goal is not satisfied: selecting an unfilled data field in the goal; and generating an output to the user using information in the frame definition that is associated with the selected unfilled data field. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the information input from the user is a speech utterance. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein generating an output to the user using information in the frame definition that is associated with the selected unfilled data field comprises generating a prompt associated with the selected unfilled data field. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein updating the frame data dependent upon the information input from the user activates a goal. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the frame comprises a plurality of goals, the method further comprising: detecting if an alternative goal of the plurality of goals is activated as a result of user input; and using the alternative goal to guide the dialog. 6. A system operable to control a dialog with a user to update frame data associated with a frame definition, the system comprising: a memory operable to store at least one data field and at least one goal of the frame definition; a user input module; a user output module; and a processor operable to receive user information from the user input module, to update the frame data dependent upon the user information, to determine that at least one goal of the frame definition is activated, wherein a goal is activated when at least one field referred to inside the goal has been modified, to select a goal that has been determined to be activated, and to generate an output to the user output module dependent upon the selected activated goal. 7. A system in accordance with claim 6 wherein the frame definition comprises: at least one data field; and a goal comprising a Boolean function of one or more filled predicates, each of which takes a reference to a field of the at least one data field as its argument, wherein the goal is satisfied during a dialog if the Boolean function evaluates to true. 8. A system in accordance with claim 7 wherein the frame definition further comprises prompts and grammars associated with the at least one data field. 9. A system in accordance with claim 7 wherein the frame definition further comprises rules associated with the at least one data field. 10. A system in accordance with claim 6 wherein a data field of the at least one data field is a complex data field comprising a frame information structure. 