Sensor systems, methods of making sensor modules and circuit modules, and methods of making expanded sensor systems including the sensor modules and circuit modules. A sensor module can include a flexible substrate, internal conductor lines, edge conductor lines for module interconnection, and sensors integrated thereon. One sensor module includes an array of interconnected capacitive pressure tactile sensors (taxels), being row addressable from address lines and readable through data lines. The sensor modules can be bonded to each other to form a larger array of sensors. One bonding method utilizes anisotropic conductive paste (ACP). The sensor system provided can be flexible and easy to expand to cover large areas. By using various sensor modules, the sensor system can be used for various applications. Readout modules can be coupled to the exterior edges to read all the individual sensors. Applications include robotic skin and wearable sensor fabrics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible sensor fabric comprising: a plurality of sensor modules, the sensor modules comprising a plurality of sensors for measuring a physical property and outputting a signal, a first flexible substrate for carrying the sensors and having edges, and a first plurality of conductor lines coupled to select and read the sensor signals; where the sensor modules are arranged in a matrix forming rows and columns of adjacent sensor modules having the first plurality of conductor lines electrically coupled to the first plurality of conductors lines of the adjacent sensor modules, the matrix having non-adjacent interposing sensor modules, the matrix having exterior matrix edges not coupled to sensor modules, the sensor modules coupled such that sensors in non-adjacent sensor modules can be selected through interposing sensor modules and can have the sensor signals read through interposing sensor modules, where the sensor modules are either directly electrically bonded to each other and/or electrically bonded through a flexible connection module. 2. The flexible sensor fabric of claim 1, in which at least some of the sensor modules are directly electrically coupled to each other with anisotropic conductive paste (ACP). 3. The flexible sensor fabric of claim 1, in which at least some of the sensor modules are indirectly coupled to each other through ACP bonding and flexible connection modules. 4. The flexible sensor fabric of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of circuit modules, the circuit modules comprising a second flexible substrate having edges, having at least one integrated circuit disposed thereon and having a second plurality of conductor lines coupled to the integrated circuit, where at least some of the circuit modules are disposed along the sensor module matrix exterior edges and electrically coupled to the sensor matrix first plurality of conductors to select the sensors for reading and to read out the selected sensor signals. 5. The flexible sensor fabric of claim 1, wherein the first flexible substrate comprises flexible polymer. 6. The flexible sensor fabric of claim 1, in which at least some of the sensors substantially differ from each other in the physical property measured and/or the range of the physical property measured. 