An optical flow sensor is presented that directly measures the translational component of the optical flow experienced by the sensor while it is on a moving platform. The translational optical flow is measured by using a gyro to measure the platform's angular rates and then incorporating these angular rates in the optical flow computations in a manner that bypasses lags in the optical flow sensor measurement. In one embodiment, individual "velocity report" optical flow measurements have their rotational component removed before these velocity reports are utilized in the remainder of the optical flow algorithm. In another embodiment, a movable window and shifting techniques are used to form a windowed image that has no rotational optical flow components. In another embodiment, an optical flow sensor is mounted on a gimbal and held to point in one direction even as the platform on which the optical flow sensor is mounted moves.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for measuring translational optical flow, comprising the steps of: measuring an angular rate based on rotation to produce at least one angular rate measurement; generating a plurality of uncompensated velocity reports based on a visual field; generating a plurality of translational velocity reports based on said plurality of uncompensated velocity reports and said at least one angular rate measurement; fusing said plurality of translational velocity reports to produce at least one translational optical flow measurement. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one translational optical flow measurement is used in achieving depth perception. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said step of generating a plurality of uncompensated velocity reports comprises the steps of: generating a plurality of binary feature signals based on said visual field; and generating said plurality of uncompensated velocity reports based on said plurality of binary feature signals. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said step of generating a plurality of binary feature signals is performed using a vision chip. 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein said step of generating a plurality of binary feature signals comprises the steps of: generating a plurality of photoreceptor signals based on said visual field; and generating said plurality of binary feature signals based on said plurality of photoreceptor signals. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said step of generating a plurality of photoreceptor signals and said step of generating said plurality of binary feature signals are performed using a vision chip. 7. A translational optical flow sensor, comprising: a device configured for generating at least one angular rate measurement; an imager configured for acquiring an image based on the translational optical flow sensor's visual field; an uncompensated velocity report generating apparatus configured for generating a plurality of uncompensated velocity reports based on said image; a rotation compensation apparatus configured for generating a plurality of translational velocity reports based on said plurality of uncompensated velocity reports and said at least one angular rate measurement; and a fusing apparatus configured for generating at least one translational optical flow measurement based on said plurality of translational velocity reports. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said at least one translational optical flow measurement is used in providing depth perception. 9. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said uncompensated velocity report generating apparatus is comprised of: a feature detector array configured for generating a plurality of binary feature signals based on said image; and a motion sensing apparatus configured for generating said plurality of uncompensated velocity reports based on said plurality of binary feature signals. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said imager and said feature detector array are implemented on a vision chip. 